FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp (TKAG.DE) on Monday defended a landmark deal to split into two as concerns mounted over whether the plans, which will result in a 1 billion euro ($1.2 billion) tax hit, go far enough.	main
Kerkhoff said, however, that the links between the divisions were significant.	main
“There is some glue between the three,” he said.	main
“They’re all depending on the same megatrends in the world.	main
They’re all depending on engineering and service competencies throughout the businesses.”	main
Shares in the company fell as much as 4.7 percent after the call.	main_consequence
The corporate split came in response to years of shareholder pressure to simplify Thyssenkrupp’s sprawling conglomerate set-up.	cause_specific
Analysts have pointed out that the group still needs a strategy for the business following the structural change.	distant_evaluation
The split bears similarity to E.ON’s (EONGn.DE) spin-off of Uniper (UN01.DE), in which the German utility kept a minority stake which it said could be sold on the open market.	distant_evaluation
It was ultimately acquired by Finnish peer Fortum (FORTUM.HE).	cause_general
In a similar vein, Thyssenkrupp, which will be renamed Thyssenkrupp Materials, will quickly move to sell the minority stake in Thyssenkrupp Industrials it will still hold after the spin-off is complete.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: A logo of ThyssenKrupp AG is pictured outside the ThyssenKrupp headquarters in Essen, November 23, 2017.	error
“The sooner the better,” Kerkhoff said, adding that Thyssenkrupp Materials would sell at the highest possible price as soon as the market could absorb it.	main
The corporate split still requires shareholder approval, which is expected by early 2019.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Thyssenkrupp Materials is sustainable without the stake in Thyssenkrupp Industrials,” Kerkhoff said.	main
REUTERS/Thilo Schmuelgen/File Photo	error
Last week Thyssenkrupp said it would spin off its elevators, car parts and plant engineering units into a separate listed entity named Thyssenkrupp Industrials, while keeping steel and materials-related activities.	cause_general
In the first analyst call since the plans were announced, Thyssenkrupp Chief Executive Guido Kerkhoff, who was given a five-year contract on Sunday, said the new structure would reduce complexity and give shareholders a more transparent asset to invest in.	main
Some analysts said however that Thyssenkrupp Industrials, while more focused, would still be a complex entity.	distant_evaluation
“Ultimately, we’ve gone from one big conglomerate to two smaller conglomerates,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Cedar Ekblom said during the call.	main
“TK Industrials has got three divisions, which are all capital goods businesses, but ultimately, are very different businesses with very different end-markets.”	main
Related Coverage Factbox: Thyssenkrupp breaks into two	error
(Updates with valuation from source in paragraph 3)	error
Proceeds from the listing will be used to partially repay the company’s foreign currency debt, and its core shareholders are expected to retain their majority shareholding.	distant_expectations_consequences
The supermarket chain will continue expanding by opening new stores in small towns and rural areas where Zubkou says it has practically no competitors.	distant_expectations_consequences
It has already launched 100 such shops.	cause_general
“1.8 million people live in small settlements.	cause_general
This is essentially a new market,” said Zubkou.	distant_evaluation
Set up in the 1990s as a wholesaler, Eurotorg is the country’s largest private sector employer with around 40,000 workers.	cause_general
The IPO will give the company access to capital markets that are currently inaccessible to companies in Belarus	cause_general
According to Zubkou, Belarusian retail resembles the market in neighbouring Poland, a European Union member, around a decade ago, meaning firms have room to grow.	distant_evaluation
At the same time, Belarus’ protectionist policies have allowed companies to develop in the absence of international competition, he said.	distant_evaluation
Any foreign company wanting to enter Belarus must comply with rules such as stocking a high proportion of Belarusian goods on store shelves.	cause_general
By Andrei Makhovsky	error
“We see no potential for the arrival of powerful foreign players,” Zubkou said.	distant_evaluation
Last year, Belarus cut red tape for businesses and made it harder for state officials to carry out inspections or shut companies’ operations without a court order.	distant_historical
The authorities also put a moratorium on the introduction of new taxes or the increase of current taxes until 2020.	distant_historical
“We have a feeling that Belarus as a whole, as a story, is louder and brighter today,” Andrei Matsiavin, Eurotorg’s Chief Strategy and Investment Officer, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
(Additional reporting by Dasha Afanasieva in London Editing by Matthias Williams, Kirsten Donovan and Keith Weir)	error
MINSK, Oct 8 (Reuters) - Belarus’ largest grocery retailer Eurotorg is set to become the country’s first company to list on an overseas stock market, as economic stability and a friendlier business environment allow non state-run enterprises to flourish.	main
Eurotorg, which has a 19 percent market share and is five times larger than its closest domestic competitor, will file documents to Britain’s regulator needed to hold an initial public offering as early as this week.	cause_general
The company, which last year became the first from Belarus to issue a Eurobond, expects to raise around $200 million in new money.	distant_expectations_consequences
A source familiar with the matter said the company was valued at up to $1.5 billion on a pre money basis, which does not take into consideration the capital the company will receive in the IPO.	distant_evaluation
It’s an important step for Belarus, whose strongman President Alexander Lukashenko has, since a financial crisis in 2014-2015, loosened his grip on private enterprises and cut subsidies to state firms that have dominated since Soviet times.	distant_evaluation
Inflation is stable at a historic low of around 5 percent while the economy is growing at around 4.5 percent a year.	cause_general
“The economy probably hasn’t been in a healthier state in the last 20 years,” Eurotorg Chief Executive Andrei Zubkou told Reuters in an interview.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Global equity markets fell on Monday amid unease over the impact of the U.S.-China trade war on China’s growth, while the dollar gained against the euro as Italian bond yields spiked on a brewing spat over Italy’s budget plans.	main
Spot yuan slid to its lowest official close against the dollar in seven weeks on expectations of more easing by China.	cause_general
(Graphic: Trade tensions in China's stock, currency markets - tmsnrt.rs/2PlCZGr)	error
Wall Street pared some losses on a day the U.S. bond market was closed because of the Columbus Day holiday.	distant_evaluation
Fear of slowing growth led to a drop in high-flying stocks that have led the U.S. equity rally.	distant_evaluation
The biggest decliners were technology stocks, which tumbled 1.18 percent.	cause_general
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 39.73 points, or 0.15 percent, to 26,486.78.	cause_general
The S&P 500 lost 1.14 points, or 0.04 percent, to 2,884.43 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 52.50 points, or 0.67 percent, to 7,735.95.	cause_general
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., October 3, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid	error
Chinese stocks fell in their biggest one-day drop since February after markets re-opened following a week-long holiday in China, with the Shanghai-Shenzhen CSI 300 index down more than 4 percent for only the second time in more than 2-1/2 years.	cause_general
European markets slid, with defensive stocks under pressure as investor confidence took a hit from last week’s spike in Treasury yields and heightened expectations for further U.S. interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve.	cause_general
For the year, Chinese indexes are down about 18 percent.	cause_general
Yields on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note were at seven-year highs after a solid U.S. jobs report last week raised the likelihood of faster interest rate hikes.	cause_general
“There’s a hangover from last week’s rapid move in yields and just because the bond market’s closed, doesn’t mean investors are not worried,” said Michael Antonelli, managing director, institutional sales trading at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee.	distant_evaluation
The yield on Italian government 10-year bonds rose more than 20 basis points to 3.626 percent, the highest since February 2014, while Italy’s FTSE MIB stock index fell 2.4 percent to its weakest since April 2017.	cause_general
Italy’s borrowing costs soared as a war of words between Rome and the European Union over the country’s budget plans escalated, with the deputy Italian prime minister denouncing officials of the European Commission as enemies of Europe.	cause_general
Brazil’s real currency hit a two-month high and stocks jumped after market-preferred presidential candidate Jair Bolsonaro’s strong first-round win on Sunday boosted investor confidence.	cause_general
The real jumped 3.4 percent at one point before paring gains to trade at less than a 2 percent rise, and the Bovespa index jumped 4.69 percent.	cause_general
Gold fell more than 1 percent as investors sought refuge in the dollar, which has been lifted by recent strong U.S. economic data that has reinforced rate hike expectations.	cause_general
Gold is down more than 12 percent from an April peak largely due to a strong dollar, which reflects a vibrant U.S. economy, rising U.S. rates and fears of a global trade war.	cause_general
U.S. gold futures settled down 1.41 percent at $1,188.60 an ounce.	cause_general
On Wall Street, the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell for the third straight day though the broad S&P 500 pared losses to end nearly flat as defensive stocks offset a decline in growth shares.	cause_general
“We are seeing some strength in the dollar index and some weakness in the equity market and it doesn’t appear that investors are going for safety in the gold markets at all,” said Phil Streible, senior commodities strategist at RJO Futures in Chicago.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
The dollar index rose 0.12 percent, with the euro down 0.25 percent to $1.1494.	main
The Japanese yen strengthened 0.53 percent versus the greenback at 113.11.	cause_general
Oil dropped, pressured by expectations that some Iranian oil exports will keep flowing after the United States re-imposes sanctions, easing a strain on supplies.	cause_general
U.S. crude settled down 5 cents at $74.29 a barrel and Brent fell 25 cents to settle at $83.91.	cause_general
“Growth stocks are so sensitive to global growth expectations,” said Chad Morganlander, senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors in Florham Park, New Jersey.	distant_evaluation
“Any time you see concern about that, you’ll see the reversal of that trade.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of leading regional shares closed down 1.14 percent, its biggest one-day drop in a month, while MSCI’s gauge of stocks across the globe shed 0.31 percent.	main
The United States remains concerned about China’s recent currency depreciation, a senior Treasury official said, adding that it was unclear whether Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin would meet with any Chinese officials this week.	distant_evaluation
Washington last month slapped tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods, which prompted Beijing to retaliate with duties on $60 billion worth of U.S. products.	cause_specific
Beijing moved over the weekend to spur more lending.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Activist investor Daniel Loeb’s hedge fund Third Point LLC has demanded access to a trove of records from Campbell Soup Co, ranging from board meeting minutes to financial documents, as it ratchets up a campaign to replace the company’s board of directors, according to a letter seen by Reuters.	main
Campbell Soup, based in Camden, New Jersey, did not respond to a request for comment on how it would respond to Third Point’s demands.	cause_general
In a press release it published on Thursday to urge shareholders to back its board, the company said that it “strongly objects to Third Point’s aggressive and short-sighted tactics”.	main_consequence
Third Point declined to comment.	cause_general
Campbell Soup shares were up 1.2 percent at $36.94 in early morning trading in New York on Thursday, giving the company a market capitalization of $11.1 billion.	cause_general
Last month, Third Point unveiled a slate of nominees to replace all twelve of Campbell’s directors, alleging the company has been mismanaged for years.	cause_specific
The company’s share price is now 30 percent lower than it was 20 years ago, Loeb said, adding that executives failed to explore all strategic options, including the sale of the company.	distant_evaluation
Campbell has disputed this, arguing that its recently concluded strategic review considered every possibility.	distant_evaluation
The company has said it currently plans to sell only its international and fresh refrigerated-foods units, as it focuses on improving its operational performance.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Jeff Dunn, the former president of Campbell’s fresh food unit, is leading a consortium of investors that is in talks to buy that division for between $500 million and $700 million.	cause_general
DECISIONS ON ACQUISITIONS	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: The logo and ticker for Campbell Soup Co. are displayed on a screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., May 18, 2018.	error
Third Point said it needs to see Campbell documents to determine whether board directors or employees violated their fiduciary duty.	distant_expectations_consequences
In its letter, Third Point seized on comments made last month by Campbell’s interim CEO, Keith McLoughlin.	distant_evaluation
McLoughlin, who took over when CEO Denise Morrison exited abruptly in May, had said the firm relied too much on acquisitions and lacked a culture of accountability, that led to poor execution.	distant_evaluation
“These admissions demonstrate that shareholders are entitled to the records of the company’s decision-making processes to investigate this unquestionable mismanagement and further instances of wrongdoing,” according to Third Point’s letter.	distant_evaluation
Among the things Loeb wants to find out is how the company went from saying that its $6 billion acquisition of Snyder’s-Lance would be accretive to earnings only to reverse itself and say it would be modestly dilutive to earnings.	distant_evaluation
“It is unfathomable that Campbell management could improperly represent to shareholders that the largest acquisition in the company’s history would be accretive and just five months later admit that they blew it,” the letter said.	distant_evaluation
Third Point is also asking for details about what the board planned to do after Morrison stepped down, including hiring a headhunter and any information on potential CEO candidates.	cause_general
“Given Ms. Morrison’s disastrous performance, the board should have been acutely focused on trying to identify a qualified replacement well before her separation,” the letter said.	distant_evaluation
Campbell, which revolutionized the home-cooking industry with easy-to-prepare soups and low-cost production techniques, has been struggling to attract young consumers to its namesake soups and Pepperidge Farm cookies.	distant_evaluation
It is not clear if any company would buy Campbell in its entirety.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo	error
Kraft Heinz Co has considered an acquisition of Campbell in the past, sources have told Reuters, but there is no sign of any recent approach from the company.	cause_general
PLEDGED SHARES	distant_evaluation
Third Point’s records request also covers any information related to board director Bennett Dorrance, who has held his seat since 1989 and was granted a waiver to stay after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 72.	cause_general
Third Point is interested in finding out why Dorrance, a grandson of former company chief John Dorrance, has not moved more quickly to reduce the loans he took for which he pledged roughly $500 million of his Campbell shares as collateral.	distant_evaluation
Pledging or loaning out shares creates questions about whether the shares can be voted and if “directors’ interests are truly aligned with those of shareholders,” the letter said.	distant_evaluation
Campbell said on Thursday it will hold its annual shareholder meeting, where investors will vote on the board directors, on Nov. 29.	distant_expectations_consequences
It is not clear whether any legal dispute over Third Point’s demand for company documents would be resolved by then.	distant_evaluation
Investors who hold Campbell shares as of Oct. 9 will be eligible to vote at the shareholder meeting, the company said.	cause_general
Third Point’s move offers an example of the legal tools shareholder activists are increasingly using to boost their chances of winning proxy contests against corporate boards.	distant_evaluation
Such maneuvering could prove crucial in this case, given Third Point, which owns 5.65 percent of the canned soup maker, faces challenges in wooing some key shareholders.	distant_expectations_consequences
Descendants of former Campbell Soup Chairman John Dorrance own a combined 42 percent stake in the company, representing a major hurdle.	cause_general
Third Point gave the U.S. company five days to provide it access to several, typically confidential, documents, pertaining to its recently completed strategic review, its mergers and acquisitions activity, and succession planning for its chief executive, according to Third Point’s “demand letter,” dated and delivered to Campbell Soup on Wednesday.	cause_general
In the letter, the hedge fund cites a New Jersey statute that gives shareholders the right to review company documents, provided they demonstrate a “proper purpose” for looking at the records.	cause_general
This sets the stage for a legal battle with Campbell Soup, should it refuse access to the records.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - Health insurer Aetna Inc AET.N said on Thursday it will sell its standalone Medicare prescription drug plan business to WellCare Health Plans Inc (WCG.N) as it seeks U.S. antitrust approval for a planned acquisition by CVS Health Corp (CVS.N).	main
Wall Street analysts expected Aetna to sell all or some of its Medicare prescription drug business ahead of its combination with CVS, the largest manager of pharmacy drug plans for the Medicare program for the elderly and disabled.	distant_expectations_consequences
The sale to WellCare aims to avoid an antitrust lawsuit over the amount of control it would have over the Medicare prescription drug market.	cause_specific
Aetna said the asset sale is a “significant step” in the U.S. Justice Department review and that its closing is contingent on that antitrust approval.	distant_expectations_consequences
Leerink analyst Ana Gupte said that the sale of the entire business “almost certainly ensures approval by the DOJ,” or Justice Department.	distant_expectations_consequences
Selling the entire business also ensures a more seamless handover to WellCare, she said.	distant_evaluation
WellCare, which specializes in government Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans, has only a small Medicare prescription drug plan business with about 4 percent market share, according to a recent research note from Barclays.	cause_general
CVS has a 24 percent market share and Aetna has 8.7 percent, according to Barclays.	cause_general
WellCare said it does not expect to recognize revenue from the deal until 2020 because the terms call for Aetna to provide administrative services and retain the financial risk related to the government plans through 2019.	distant_expectations_consequences
WellCare shares rose 4 percent to $319.76, Aetna added 0.7 percent to $203.13, and CVS was up 0.6 percent to $78.93.	cause_general
A logo of Aetna is displayed on a monitor above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in New York, U.S., December 5, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson	error
The $69 billion CVS-Aetna deal would be the second large deal this year between insurers and pharmacy benefit managers, a consolidation the companies say will help rein in rising U.S. healthcare costs.	distant_evaluation
CVS said separately that it expects the Aetna acquisition to close in the early part of the fourth quarter of this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rival insurer Cigna Corp’s (CI.N) $52 billion acquisition of Express Scripts Holding Co (ESRX.O), the largest U.S. pharmacy benefit manager, which was announced after the CVS-Aetna transaction, has already passed U.S. Justice Department scrutiny.	cause_general
Aetna did not disclose the terms of the sale to WellCare but said that the Medicare pharmacy prescription plans, known as Part D plans, covered more than 2.2 million members.	cause_general
The sale price is likely between $1 billion and $1.5 billion based on the number of members, BMO Capital Markets analyst Matt Borsch estimated in a research note.	distant_expectations_consequences
He forecast the acquisition would add $3 billion to WellCare’s annual revenue and 50 cents to $1 per share to earnings starting in 2020.	distant_expectations_consequences
TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada’s Hudson’s Bay Co (HBC.TO) reported a second-quarter loss on Wednesday as sales fell at its Lord & Taylor and Saks OFF 5th divisions even as improved margins boosted its adjusted earnings, and shares surged nearly 5 percent in morning trading.	main
Sluggish sales have dogged HBC as Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O) and other online retailers lure consumers away from department stores.	distant_evaluation
In all but one of the last ten quarters, the company has posted losses.	cause_general
Hudson’s Bay reported a net loss of C$147 million ($112.65 million), or 62 Canadian cents a share, in its North American operations for the quarter ended Aug. 4.	cause_specific
That compared with a loss of C$100 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier.	distant_historical
Comparable sales in HBC’s department store group, which includes its Hudson’s Bay, Lord & Taylor and Home Outfitters banners, fell 3.8 percent, while sales at Saks OFF 5th, which offers discounted designer goods, dropped 7.6 percent.	cause_specific
Saks Fifth Avenue’s sales rose 6.7 percent.	cause_general
Gross margins improved 240 basis points from the same quarter a year earlier, lifting adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to C$33 million from C$3 million a year ago, the company said.	cause_general
Including its European business, Hudson’s Bay reported a net loss of C$264 million, widening from C$201 million a year ago.	main
The European joint venture will merge HBC’s Galeria Kaufhof with Signa’s Karstadt brand to form the region’s third-biggest department store chain.	cause_general
The companies said on Tuesday that their combined regional sales in 2017 were 5.4 billion euros ($6.25 billion).	distant_historical
A woman holds a Hudson's Bay shopping bag in front of the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC) flagship department store in Toronto January 27, 2014.	error
The venture was the latest in the Toronto-based company’s efforts to boost its performance.	distant_evaluation
In June, it said it would sell its unprofitable online banner Gilt, and close up to 10 Lord & Taylor stores including its Manhattan flagship, whose building it agreed to sell to Softbank-backed WeWork Cos. last year.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Mark Blinch	error
Chief Executive Officer Helena Foulkes said the department store operator, which announced a joint venture in Europe with Austrian rival Signa Holding on Tuesday, will now focus on turning around the underperforming divisions.	distant_evaluation
“We’ve made some poor decisions over the last few years that have hurt (the Saks OFF 5th brand’s) profitability,” Foulkes, who became chief executive in February, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“But this is a business that fundamentally can be successful.”	distant_evaluation
Lord & Taylor was more challenging and a turnaround would take longer, she said, adding that changes could include smaller stores.	distant_expectations_consequences
Hudson's Bay shares jumped 4.9 percent to $11.15 in early trading in Toronto, paring losses for the year to 3.6 percent.	cause_general
The benchmark Toronto stock index .GSPTSE was down 0.1 percent.	cause_general
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Orsted (ORSTED.CO), the world’s largest offshore wind developer, said on Monday it would buy U.S.-based Deepwater Wind LLC for $510 million as part of its strategy to expand in a major growth market.	main
Orsted also recently acquired U.S. onshore wind developer Lincoln Clean Energy.	cause_general
The still small U.S. offshore wind sector is seen as one of the most important markets outside the core European region, where subsidies that have underpinned the industry since the early 1990s are starting to be wound back.	distant_evaluation
Deepwater Wind, the builder of the only operating U.S. offshore wind farm, has a portfolio with a capacity of around 3.3 gigawatts (GW).	cause_general
Orsted’s U.S portfolio currently has a capacity of 5.5 GW.	cause_general
Orsted has so far lost out on auctions in the nascent market, while Deepwater Wind has been more successful and currently has the right to develop wind farms in Rhode Island, New York and Connecticut.	cause_general
“With this transaction we’re creating the number one offshore wind platform in North America,” Orsted’s offshore wind chief Martin Neubert in a statement.	distant_evaluation
The drive to open America’s offshore wind industry has attracted Europe’s biggest renewable energy companies, who see the U.S. East Coast as a new frontier after years of success across the Atlantic.	distant_evaluation
Orsted said the acquisition increased its capital expenditure guidance to 23-25 billion Danish crowns ($3.55-3.86 billion) this year from previous guidance of 16-18 billion.	cause_general
The new guidance includes the acquisition price of Deepwater Wind, early capex commitments for the U.S. business in the fourth quarter, “as well as increased spending in the remaining portfolio due to timing”.	cause_general
BEIJING/PARIS (Reuters) - Volvo Cars and its Chinese owner Geely have postponed plans to float shares in the Swedish carmaker, blaming trade tensions and a downturn in automotive stocks.	main
Washington’s escalating trade spat with Beijing and tensions with Europe have rattled automotive investors, adding volatility to market outlooks.	cause_general
The logo of Geely Automobile Holdings is pictured at the Auto China 2016 auto show in Beijing, China April 25, 2016.	error
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon	error
Volvo is less exposed than its German premium rivals to U.S.-China tariffs, however, and has said it will juggle production of its XC60 SUV to reduce their impact.	distant_expectations_consequences
It delivered 61,480 cars in China in the first half, a fraction of BMW’s (BMWG.DE) or Audi’s (VOWG_p.DE) sales.	cause_general
Geely, which paid Ford Motor Co (F.N) $1.8 billion for Volvo in 2010, also has stakes in Mercedes-Benz parent Daimler (DAIGn.DE), truckmaker AB Volvo (VOLVb.ST) and Lotus.	cause_general
CHINESE INROADS	distant_evaluation
Geely and its boss Li Shufu had concluded that Volvo should make deeper inroads into the Chinese market before listing, a person familiar with the group’s thinking told Reuters.	distant_anecdotal
And Volvo, which is developing Polestar as an electrified performance brand and owns a stake in Geely stablemate Lynk&Co, has “other alternatives” to raise finance, Samuelsson said.	distant_evaluation
The IPO postponement reflects bigger concerns about “price development after a potential IPO” rather than about the initial valuation, the CEO added, citing sensitivities over the prevalence of public pension funds among Swedish investors.	distant_evaluation
But while Volvo’s plans for a Stockholm listing were delayed indefinitely, Britain’s Aston Martin vowed to push ahead with its own initial public offering.	distant_expectations_consequences
“What made me nervous especially was leaving headroom for investors” amid growing market uncertainties, he said.	distant_evaluation
Swedish telecoms operator Telia (TELIA.ST) drew public wrath after its shares sank from their 2000 debut.	distant_historical
For a domestic car brand, such a setback could dent both image and sales.	distant_evaluation
Samuelsson also said that Aston Martin, as a pure luxury play, was “more like Ferrari” - whose widely envied listing came close to late boss Sergio Marchionne’s 10-billion-euro target valuation.	distant_evaluation
Like Volvo, Aston Martin was once owned by Ford.	distant_historical
“I wish them luck with their IPO,” Samuelsson said.	distant_evaluation
“We’ve come to the conclusion that the timing is not optimal for an IPO right now,” Volvo Chief Executive Hakan Samuelsson told Reuters by telephone on Monday, confirming a decision which was first reported by the Financial Times.	distant_evaluation
Volvo and its Chinese parent had been discussing an IPO to value the carmaker at between $16 billion and $30 billion, sources have previously said.	cause_specific
The company said a listing was still possible in the future.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Samuelsson said IPO prospects had dimmed with the business cycle, amid a broad-based decline in automotive shares that has dragged the Stoxx 600 Autos & Parts index .SXAP 15 percent lower so far this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Even before the recent sell-off, however, some observers doubted the $30 billion upper end of Volvo’s target valuation.	distant_evaluation
“We had expressed our reservations concerning lofty valuation ambitions before,” Evercore ISI analyst Arndt Ellinghorst said on Monday.	distant_evaluation
“Trade wars are just one red flag.”	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Dell Technologies Inc (DVMT.N) is exploring an initial public offering (IPO) after shelving this option earlier this year in favor of going public by buying back a special type of stock from investors, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday.	main
The tracking stock deal would not require Dell to raise new money because it would be funded by the company issuing new shares and with a $9 billion dividend it would receive from VMware.	cause_general
Dell’s recent financial performance has emboldened the Round Rock, Texas-based computer company to once again consider the IPO seriously, according to the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deliberations are confidential.	cause_general
Dell is preparing to interview investment banks this week for underwriting roles in a potential IPO, the sources said.	distant_expectations_consequences
It has also pushed back a roadshow with tracking stock investors that was slated for this week to the following week, the sources added.	cause_general
Dell declined to comment.	cause_general
Dell’s IPO preparations were first reported earlier on Sunday by the Wall Street Journal.	cause_general
There is no certainty that Dell will go ahead with an IPO.	distant_evaluation
Dell Chief Financial Officer Tom Sweet said last week the company would go back to its “status quo” if investors rejected its offer for the tracking stock.	distant_expectations_consequences
Dell said this month that its operational cash flow soared by 45 percent year-on-year in the latest quarter to $2.6 billion, while its total debt dropped to $50.3 billion, down from the $57.3 billion debt pile in September 2016, when it completed its acquisition of data storage company EMC Corp.	cause_general
VALUE OF TRACKING STOCK	distant_evaluation
Dell logos are seen at its headquarters in Cyberjaya, outside Kuala Lumpur in this September 4, 2013 file photo.	error
Dell issued the tracking stock in 2016 to buy EMC for $67 billion because it could not pay for the whole deal in cash and did not want to add to its debt burden.	distant_historical
EMC owned the majority stake in VMware, which Dell inherited.	distant_historical
Dell has offered to exchange each tracking share for 1.3665 shares of its Class C common stock, as well as cash, valuing the tracking stock at $109.	cause_general
Dell’s equity would be valued at between $61.1 billion and $70.1 billion, more than twice the value of the $24.9 billion deal that founder and Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell and buyout firm Silver Lake clinched to take the company private in 2013.	distant_expectations_consequences
But as with that take-private deal, which went through after Michael Dell slightly changed its terms, hedge funds are opposing the tracking stock offer.	cause_general
The tracking stock ended trading on Friday at $96.20, substantially below Dell’s $109 per share offer, indicating investor skepticism over its success.	distant_evaluation
After a potential IPO, Dell could force owners of tracking stock to sell it.	distant_expectations_consequences
The premium would be between 20 and 10 percent, depending on the amount of time between Dell forcing them to sell it and the completion of the IPO, according to regulatory filings.	distant_expectations_consequences
Whether tracking stock shareholders would be better off under that scenario, as opposed to selling to Dell now, would hinge on the performance of the IPO and the timing of a subsequent takeout.	distant_expectations_consequences
Going public would give Michael Dell and Silver Lake the option to eventually sell down their stakes, even though they have said they have no plans to do so.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Bazuki Muhammad/Files	error
If the tracking stock deal goes through, Michael Dell would own 47 percent to 54 percent of the combined company, while Silver Lake would own between 16 percent and 18 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
Michael Dell has turned to deal-making to transform his company from a PC manufacturer into a broader seller of information technology services to businesses, ranging from storage and servers to networking and cyber security.	cause_general
The strategy is in sharp contrast to that of rival HP Inc (HPQ.N), which separated in 2016 from Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co (HPE.N), based on the reasoning that two technology companies focused separately on hardware and services would be more nimble.	distant_evaluation
Dell’s IPO deliberations come as several hedge funds, including Elliott Management Corp and Canyon Capital Advisors LLC, as well as activist investor Carl Icahn, resist a $21.7 billion cash-and-stock offer from Dell to buy back “tracking stock” from them tied to Dell’s 81 percent stake in software company VMware Inc (VMW.N).	cause_specific
Such a security “tracks,” or depends, on the financial performance of a specific business unit or operating division of a company, rather than the operations of the issuer as a whole.	cause_general
The acquisition of this publicly traded tracking stock would result in Dell going public without an IPO.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the hedge funds have said that Dell’s offer shortchanges them because it inflates its own value and discounts the value of the tracking stock.	distant_evaluation
Dell had considered an IPO earlier this year as part of a strategic review that also explored a possibility of a reverse merger with VMware.	distant_historical
In July, it decided against the IPO because of concerns that its large debt pile would put off stock market investors, sources said at the time.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Campbell Soup Co’s (CPB.N) board is drawing up a list of CEO candidates, with Chief Operating Officer Luca Mignini emerging as the top internal contender, as the company seeks to fend off a proxy challenge from Daniel Loeb’s hedge fund, Third Point LLC, people familiar with the matter said.	main
Morrison also held the COO position before she took the top job in 2011.	distant_historical
Investors who met with McLoughlin and Campbell Chief Financial Officer Anthony DiSilvestro in recent days told Reuters that Mignini joined the meetings, in a sign the company was seeking to raise his profile.	distant_evaluation
Mignini did not usually attend such meetings in the past, the investors said.	distant_historical
CNBC reported in May, at the time of Morrison’s departure, that Mignini was a likely candidate for the CEO seat.	distant_historical
The board is also preparing to interview candidates from outside the company, although nobody external has been contacted yet, according to one of the people familiar with the arrangements.	distant_anecdotal
Campbell’s board, which includes three heirs of John Dorrance, the chemist who invented condensed soup and ran the company nearly a century ago, will review a list of external candidates at its next meeting at the end of September, the source added.	distant_anecdotal
The sources asked not to be identified because the deliberations are confidential.	distant_anecdotal
A Campbell spokesman declined to comment on whether Mignini was the top internal candidate and said the board had been working with executive-search firms to assess both internal and external candidates.	distant_evaluation
Third Point declined to comment.	cause_general
Campbell Soup shares were up 0.5 percent at $40.40 in early morning trading on Monday, giving the company a market capitalization of about $12 billion.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Tins of Campbell's tomato soup are seen on a supermarket shelf in Seattle, Washington, U.S. February 10, 2017.	error
Third Point’s board challenge could complicate the CEO selection process, given that shareholders could choose to replace board members who will be making that decision, in a vote that could be scheduled as early as November.	distant_expectations_consequences
The turmoil could discourage some of the consumer industry’s top executives from applying, the sources said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Third Point faces an uphill struggle in any battle for control of Campbell Soup, given that descendants of Dorrance own a combined stake of about 42 percent in the company.	distant_evaluation
A board challenge could ratchet up pressure on Campbell, however, to explore a sale with more urgency.	distant_expectations_consequences
EXTERNAL CANDIDATES	distant_evaluation
Third Point, which manages $18 billion in assets, has played a role in bringing new CEOs to several companies, including Jose Almeida to Baxter International Inc (BAX.N), Tad Smith to Sotheby’s (BID.N), and Marissa Mayer to Yahoo.	cause_general
One external CEO candidate Campbell Soup’s board is expected to consider is Mark Clouse, chief executive of Pinnacle Foods Inc PF.N, who will soon be without a full-time job after his company agreed in June to sell itself to ConAgra Brands Inc (CAG.N) for $8.1 billion.	distant_expectations_consequences
Clouse, 49, is an industry veteran, having also held senior positions at Oreo-maker Mondelez International Inc (MDLZ.O) and Kraft Foods Inc.	cause_general
It is not clear if Clouse would be interested.	distant_evaluation
He could not be reached for comment.	cause_general
REUTERS/Chris Helgren/File Photo	error
Campbell said on Aug. 30 it planned to sell its international and fresh refrigerated-foods units, and only left open the possibility of putting the whole company up for sale in the future, snubbing a call from Third Point to do so urgently.	distant_expectations_consequences
The 149-year-old company, which revolutionized the home-cooking industry with easy-to-prepare soups and low-cost production techniques, has been struggling to attract young consumers to its namesake soups and Pepperidge Farm cookies.	distant_evaluation
Campbell’s latest foray into fresh food has faltered, while Wall Street has questioned an acquisition strategy that increased debt at the same time as costs increased.	distant_evaluation
Third Point unveiled a slate of nominees on Friday to replace Campbell’s 12-member board, pushing it to more actively explore a sale and criticizing its lack of a succession plan after Chief Executive Denise Morrison left in May.	main
Morrison’s departure came after several years of weak corporate earnings.	cause_general
Campbell board member Keith McLoughlin, who has served as interim CEO since Morrison’s departure, has said he is not interested in the job on a permanent basis.	cause_specific
That has added to pressure on Campbell to find a leader who will help it execute an ambitious turnaround plan it unveiled last month.	distant_expectations_consequences
Despite Morrison’s exit almost four months ago, the board has only recently taken formal steps to look externally for a new CEO, according to the sources.	distant_evaluation
Mignini, 55, joined Campbell five years ago and was promoted in April to be its COO, putting the Italian-educated executive in charge of the U.S. company’s snack and meal businesses, in addition to U.S. sales and global development.	distant_historical
(Reuters) - Sears Holdings Corp SHLD.O Chief Executive Eddie Lampert, a major investor in the company, has proposed rescue deals to help the department store chain avoid bankruptcy as debt matures next month and it faces a cash crunch, according to a regulatory filing released on Monday.	main
The proposals came as a Sears special committee weighs a prior offer from Lampert to acquire the retailer’s Kenmore appliances brand and its home services business for as much as $480 million.	cause_general
Sears warned this month it could go out of business as it waits for approval from the committee on the deal.	distant_evaluation
The U.S. government agency overseeing the pensions of 100,000 of the company’s former workers must also approve a sale of Kenmore.	cause_general
Sears’ shares, worth $30 in 2015, were down 3 percent at $1.24 Monday.	cause_general
Credit ratings agency Fitch Ratings Inc said it viewed Lampert’s proposed deal as “challenging to execute.” Even if the deal is done, Sears would still need significant cash to operate because of challenges in retail, the ratings agency said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In recent decades, Sears, which was the world’s largest retailer in the 1960s, has struggled in the face of declining foot traffic at its brick-and-mortar stores.	cause_general
In another attempt to avoid bankruptcy, money-losing Sears last year sold its Craftsman tool brand to power tool maker Stanley Black & Decker (SWK.N) for $900 million.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: A Sears logo is seen inside a department store in Garden City, New York, U.S. on May 23, 2016.	error
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton/File Photo	error
Billionaire Lampert, who also runs hedge fund ESL Investments Inc, said the 125-year-old department store chain should take steps reduce its debt load to $1.2 billion from $5.6 billion.	distant_evaluation
Lampert and his hedge fund, which he controls, own about 50 percent of Sears, according to Thomson Reuters data.	cause_general
Lampert said Sears should offer creditors options to extend their debt or exchange it for new holdings, giving Sears more time to turn its business around.	distant_evaluation
Lampert said the company should continue selling real estate to reduce debt by $1.5 billion and that ESL would be a back-up bidder for the properties.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sears said it has referred Lampert’s proposal to a special committee.	cause_general
In an internal message seen by Reuters, Sears said, “We will now be working aggressively to execute liability management transactions so that we can extend our runway and continue executing on our transformation strategy.”	distant_expectations_consequences
BUENOS AIRES/SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Uber’s fastest-growing market in the world is now Argentina, company executives say, attributing the expansion to the nation’s sudden economic unraveling, which has boosted unemployment and sliced the purchasing power of Argentines.	main
Commissions from drivers are Uber’s only source of revenue.	cause_general
Uber’s Argentine conundrum of being unable to profit from its fast growth there mirrors a wider problem for the ride hailing service, which has struggled to prove that it can be profitable as it gears up for a planned 2019 initial public offering.	distant_evaluation
‘TOO MANY DRIVERS’	distant_evaluation
Macdonald played down those concerns, however.	distant_evaluation
Uber driver Juan Carlos, who wished not to give his last name, uses his application map on his cellphone as he drives his car in Buenos Aires, Argentina September 19, 2018.	error
Picture taken September 19, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci	error
“It’s not about whether we are making money in the near term,” he said, adding that the company will “eventually” have to charge those commissions.	distant_evaluation
Macdonald would not say whether the Argentine market is profitable.	distant_evaluation
Uber has disclosed that its operations in nearby Brazil - now the company’s second-biggest market worldwide - are profitable.	cause_general
Twenty percent of its drivers in Buenos Aires, the only city where it operates in Argentina, were jobless immediately before joining Uber.	cause_general
Once Uber can accept local credit and debit cards, it will be able to recoup what it is owed, the company said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Drivers, however, say the current Argentine growth rate may be temporary, tied to the lack of a commission charge.	distant_evaluation
“What’s going on is that there are too many drivers currently and so there’s less work for us,” said Jorge, a 62-year old Uber driver who requested anonymity.	distant_anecdotal
“Everyone’s coming to Uber because they don’t charge a commission.”	distant_anecdotal
Uber says that in the last three months, it has had 55,000 active drivers and 1 million active users in Buenos Aires.	cause_specific
Each day, the company said it adds between 300 and 400 new drivers and 7,000 new users.	cause_specific
There’s also attrition in the mix.	cause_general
“The average lifespan for a driver in Latin America is about three to four months.	cause_general
It means they use Uber as something temporary,” Fernandez Aramburu said.	distant_evaluation
Uber’s recruitment success reflects a wider trend within Argentina, where a rising jobless rate has hit full-time jobs with benefits in particular, economists say.	distant_evaluation
The economic downturn, “has certainly helped many people find us as an alternative source of income,” Felipe Fernandez Aramburu, who runs Uber business development in Argentina, told Reuters in a recent interview.	distant_evaluation
“We are going through a process that is making labor rights more precarious, and formal employment is dwindling,” said Hernan Letcher, director of the Center for Argentine Economic Policy.	distant_evaluation
Uber has been operating in Argentina since 2016, when it faced aggressive resistance from taxi drivers and government authorities, including legal disputes that led to the ban on credit card payments that is still in place.	cause_general
Slideshow (6 Images)	error
There is no regulatory framework for Uber in Buenos Aires, including no way for the government to collect sales tax on the rides.	cause_general
Macdonald said the company welcomes favorable regulation and that accepting local credit cards is a priority, which will make more drivers pay their 25 percent commission but could also increase Uber’s business.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s a testament to our investment in Argentina ... that we are able to grow so much even without being able to offer the convenience of all payment options,” Macdonald said.	distant_evaluation
Despite worries about the country’s economy, which shrank 4.2 percent in the second quarter after its central bank hiked rates to ward off a currency crisis, the company says it does not fear that a recession could boost the number of drivers without an equivalent increase in demand.	distant_evaluation
“Our growth today is less about economic conditions on the rider side,” said Andrew Macdonald, who runs Uber in Latin America.	distant_evaluation
Instead, Macdonald expects what he described as a paucity of public transportation options to lift demand in Argentina and said growth was highest in the neighborhoods with the least bus and train service.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Uber’s Argentine unit still faces a snag: For most rides, the company does not charge its drivers the 25 percent commission it is theoretically owed.	cause_general
Due to legal and regulatory hurdles, Uber rides in Argentina can only be paid with cash or credit cards issued abroad, which almost no locals have.	cause_general
When rides are paid in cash, drivers currently have no way to pay Uber its 25 percent commission, leaving many with a growing debt to the company.	cause_general
PARIS (Reuters) - France has no plans for now to sell its 14 percent stake in Air France-KLM (AIRF.PA), Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said on Thursday, pressing the group’s new chief executive to focus on increasing competitiveness.	main
Shares in Air France KLM rose 1.6 percent, although the stock remains down by nearly 40 percent so far in 2018.	cause_general
In an interview published on Thursday, Smith told the Financial Times that the French government should not and would not bail out Air France to shield it from competition, even if there were some in the company that believed the state’s holding offered them protection.	distant_expectations_consequences
Le Maire himself warned Air France staff in May that the government would not come to the airline’s rescue.	distant_historical
The French state is the largest shareholder in Air France-KLM.	cause_general
What President Emmanuel Macron does with the stake will be a test of the former investment banker’s resolve to lighten the state’s touch on the economy.	distant_evaluation
Le Maire said it made no sense for the state to sell down its stake in Air France while the airline is attempting to make tough reforms and at a time its share price is suffering.	distant_evaluation
“The state would be a poor manager (of its holdings) if it started selling its shares in a company that is not in good shape,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Air France-KLM’s shares have been hit this year, mainly due to the strikes waged by French unions seeking improved pay and working conditions.	cause_general
Delta Airlines (DAL.N) and China Eastern Airlines (600115.SS) each hold an 8.8 percent stake in the group.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire attends a news conference at the Bercy Finance Ministry in Paris, France, August 30, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Christian Hartmann/File Photo	error
Le Maire was reacting to a warning from the group’s new Canadian boss, Benjamin Smith, to Air France’s labour unions that the government was prepared to offload its shares and they should not rely on the state to bail them out.	cause_specific
Smith, who took over the group last week, faces the unenviable task of having to overcome union resistance to reduce the French unit’s swollen cost base while keeping increasingly frustrated Dutch staff on side.	cause_general
A wave of strikes at Air France this spring cost the group some 350 million euros ($410 million) and led to the ouster of Smith’s predecessor.	cause_specific
“Today the priority is to turn around Air France,” Le Maire told franceinfo.	distant_evaluation
“Selling off the state’s stake in Air France is not part of Benjamin Smith’s action plan.	distant_evaluation
It is not an option on the table today.”	distant_evaluation
PARIS (Reuters) - French bank Natixis (CNAT.PA) said on Wednesday it planned to sell several specialized finance businesses to its parent, unlisted French cooperative lender BPCE, and use part of the 2.7 billion euros ($3.1 billion) in proceeds for acquisitions.	main
It intends to make acquisitions in all those businesses, except for insurance.	distant_expectations_consequences
If Natixis were to identify acquisition targets after the special dividend is paid to shareholders, BPCE would back it with capital if needed, BPCE’s Chief Executive Laurent Mignon said in a conference call with journalists.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mignon, Natixis’ CEO until June, is also chairman of the investment bank’s supervisory board.	cause_general
The assets to be sold to BPCE are consumer financing, factoring, leasing, sureties and guarantees, and securities services businesses.	cause_general
Following the transaction, Natixis expects to raise its target for return on tangible equity in 2020 to between 14 percent and 15.5 percent from a previous target of between 13 percent and 14.5 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bank will also lift its core equity tier one ratio to 11 percent from 10.5 percent at the end of the second quarter as it will keep 500 million euros in capital.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: The logo of French bank Natixis is seen outside one of their offices in Paris February 18, 2013.	error
REUTERS/Charles Platiau/File Photo	error
“This planned transaction would give Natixis further financial firepower to invest in its differentiating asset-light business lines – primarily asset management,” Chief Executive Francois Riahi said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Natixis said the deal would leave it with a war chest of 2.5 billion euros for acquisitions over the 2018-2020 period, up from 1 billion euros previously earmarked, although it currently has no specific new deals in the works.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bank has already spent 400 million euros of that amount on two acquisitions earlier this year, its CEO said.	distant_historical
The French investment bank said it intends to pay shareholders a special dividend of 1.5 billion euros after the deal is closed during the first quarter next year if it doesn’t find acquisition opportunities.	distant_expectations_consequences
Natixis said the sale of assets will allow BPCE to widen the range of services it offers to its retail customers, while Natixis will beef up its profile as an investment bank.	distant_expectations_consequences
Natixis will narrow its focus to asset management, wealth management, investment banking, payment services and insurance.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - Adobe Systems Inc on Thursday agreed to buy Marketo Inc for $4.75 billion from private equity firm Vista Equity Partners Management, adding heft to its cloud-based digital marketing business.	main
Adobe has been on something of a shopping spree lately.	distant_evaluation
In May it agreed to buy cloud-based e-commerce services provider Magento Commerce from private equity firm Permira for $1.68 billion.	distant_historical
Reuters had exclusively reported earlier this month that Adobe was in talks to buy Marketo.	cause_general
JP Morgan advised Adobe, while its legal adviser was Hogan Lovells.	cause_general
Morgan Stanley and Kirkland & Ellis advised Marketo and Vista Equity Partners.	cause_general
Adobe shares were up marginally in extended trading.	cause_general
An Adobe Systems Inc software box is seen in Los Angeles, California, U.S., March 13, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson	error
The U.S. Photoshop maker is sharpening its focus on the fast-growing cloud business, a fiercely competitive market dominated by Microsoft Corp, Oracle Corp and Salesforce.	distant_evaluation
Marketo’s business-to-business marketing applications will complement Adobe’s digital marketing business, which provides cloud-based tools to help create, manage and analyze advertising and marketing campaigns, the companies said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Marketo, started in 2006 as an email marketing service, was taken private by Vista for $1.8 billion in 2016.	distant_historical
The San Mateo, California-based company generated revenue of about $321 million in 2017, according to credit ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service Inc.	distant_historical
The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of Adobe’s fiscal 2018 and Marketo Chief Executive Officer Steve Lucas will join the company’s senior leadership team and continue to lead the Marketo team, Adobe said.	distant_expectations_consequences
After Vista acquired Marketo, it changed its management team, adding Lucas, a former SAP SE executive, as the CEO in 2016, who helped revive sales growth at the company.	distant_historical
NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - China set a 10 percent tariff on U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports, extending a trade dispute into energy and casting a shadow over U.S. export terminals that would propel the United States into the world’s second-largest LNG seller.	main
The country has taken delivery from just four vessels since June versus 17 during the first five months of the year.	cause_general
[For a graphic on U.S. LNG deliveries to China, click here: tmsnrt.rs/2n9bQKn]	error
Proposed U.S. export terminals, many expected to supply Chinese customers, were expected to account for 60 percent of all new LNG production coming to market by 2023, according to industry data.	distant_expectations_consequences
LNG, which involves super-cooling natural gas so it can be transported by ship rather than pipeline, has become one of the fastest growing commodity trades as nations seek cleaner fuels.	distant_evaluation
The tariff’s extension to an energy commodity much in demand in China was a worrisome sign for trade relations and for billions of dollars in proposed U.S. terminals, said trade group executives.	distant_evaluation
Including LNG “is a good indicator of how serious things have gotten between the U.S. and China on this trade issue,” said Charlie Riedl, executive director of Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, a group whose members include Cheniere Energy, Chevron and Exxon Mobil.	distant_evaluation
“While we would like to see this resolved quickly, I don’t see that happening right now,” said Riedl, speaking by phone from a natural gas conference in Spain.	distant_expectations_consequences
The longer the dispute lasts, the less likely proposed projects will find financial backers, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts say the tariffs will particularly hit plans by U.S. companies, such as Cheniere Energy (LNG.A), Sempra (SRE.N) and Kinder Morgan (KMI.N), to build new terminals or expand existing ones by adding processing units.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Some commercial agreements may be on hold until there is more visibility,” said Stacey Morris, director of energy research at Alerian Indexes.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: A liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facility of the ENN Group Co is under construction in Baoding, Hebei province, China, December 5, 2017.	error
Cheniere, Kinder Morgan and Dominion Energy declined to comment.	cause_general
But the smaller-than-expected Chinese tariff helped lift Cheniere Energy, whose shares on Tuesday were up 2.9 percent, and Golar LNG (GLNG.O), whose stock rose 2 percent.	cause_general
China imported 1.6 million tonnes, or 11 percent, of the 14.9 million tonnes of LNG exported from the United States so far this year, according to Thomson Reuters data.	cause_general
That accounted for 5 percent of total Chinese LNG imports.	cause_general
The U.S. has been looking to Europe to take on more of its natural gas as the China dispute continues.	cause_general
Germany said on Tuesday the country would decide by year-end where to locate a new LNG receiving terminal as a gesture to the Trump administration.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Thomas Peter/File Photo	error
Beijing on Tuesday said it would tax U.S. products worth $60 billion effective Sept. 24 in retaliation for tariffs imposed by U.S. President Donald Trump in an escalating trade war.	cause_general
The rate was smaller than the 25 percent tariff China had touted earlier, which offered some relief and helped shares in listed U.S. LNG companies climb.	distant_evaluation
The tariffs undermine Trump’s drive to use U.S. shale oil and natural gas to turn the United States into a global energy leader.	distant_evaluation
The U.S. is on track to export over 1,000 billion cubic feet (bcf) of gas as LNG in 2018.	distant_expectations_consequences
One billion cubic feet is enough to fuel about 5 million U.S. homes for a day.	cause_general
But China, which purchased about 15 percent of all U.S. LNG shipped in 2017, is now on track to buy less than 100 bcf of U.S. LNG in 2018, less than last year, according to Thomson Reuters vessel tracking and U.S. Department of Energy data.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rockville, MD (Reuters) - Instagram on Monday said co-founders Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger have resigned as chief executive officer and chief technical officer of the photo-sharing app owned by Facebook Inc, giving scant explanation for the move.	main
INDEPENDENCE	cause_general
Koum’s departure in May followed the exit of his WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton.	cause_general
That led to a reshuffling of Facebook’s executive ranks, increasing Zuckerberg’s ability to influence day-to-day operations.	cause_general
Zuckerberg ally Chris Cox, who leads product development for Facebook’s main app, gained oversight of WhatsApp and Instagram, which had been given independence when Facebook bought them.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Instagram founders Mike Krieger (L) and Kevin Systrom attend the 16th annual Webby Awards in New York May, 21 2012.	error
REUTERS/Stephen Chernin/File photo	error
Adam Mosseri, who had overseen Facebook’s news feed and spent a decade working closely with Zuckerberg, became Instagram’s head of product.	cause_general
Instagram and Facebook have operated independently and the two services barely mention each other.	cause_general
But as regulators have pushed Facebook to improve information safeguards for individual privacy, to combat addiction to social media, and to stop misinformation or fake news, Zuckerberg and other leaders have been under more pressure to monitor units beyond the core social network.	cause_general
ACQUISITION DONE RIGHT	distant_evaluation
The departures at Facebook’s fastest-growing revenue generator come just months after the exit of Jan Koum, co-founder of Facebook-owned messaging app WhatsApp, leaving the social network without the developers behind two of its biggest services.	cause_general
Systrom and Krieger notified the photo-sharing app’s leadership team and Facebook on Monday about their decision to leave, Instagram said.	main
Their departure would be soon, it said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The New York Times first reported the move.	cause_general
Systrom and Krieger met through Stanford University and worked separately in Silicon Valley before forming Instagram in 2010.	distant_historical
Facebook bought Instagram in 2012 for $1 billion.	distant_historical
The photo-sharing app has over 1 billion active monthly users and has grown by adding features such as messaging and short videos.	cause_general
In 2016, it added the ability to post slideshows that disappear in 24 hours, mimicking the “stories” feature of Snap Inc’s Snapchat.	distant_historical
The photo app’s global revenue this year is likely to exceed $8 billion, showed data from advertising consultancy EMarketer.	distant_expectations_consequences
Increased advertising on Instagram has seen the average price-per-ad across Facebook’s apps decline this year after a year of upswing.	cause_general
A new privacy law in Europe also has affected prices.	cause_general
They also come at a time when Facebook’s core platform is under fire for how it safeguards customer data, as it defends against political efforts to spread false information, and as younger users increasingly prefer alternative ways to stay in touch with family and friends.	cause_general
Instagram had been hailed in Silicon Valley as a flashy acquisition done right, with the team kept relatively small and Systrom having the freedom to add features such as peer-to-peer messaging, video uploads and advertising.	distant_evaluation
“I see Mark [Zuckerberg] practice a tremendous amount of restraint in giving us the freedom to run, but the reason why I think he gives us the freedom to run is because when we run, it typically works,” Systrom told Recode last June.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Instagram Chief Executive Kevin Systrom answers a question at a news conference, as L-R: social media star Bryce Xavier, Instagram Product Manager Ashley Yuki and social media star Lele Pons look on, in San Francisco, California, U.S., June 20, 2018.	error
REUTERS/David Ingram/File Photo	error
The app’s latest product, IGTV, has been slow to gain traction.	distant_evaluation
Offered through Instagram and as a standalone app, IGTV serves up longer-length video content, mostly from popular Instagram users.	cause_general
Video content has been a major emphasis for Facebook as it seeks to satisfy advertisers’ desire to stream more commercials online.	distant_evaluation
Concerns over Facebook’s business sparked the biggest one-day wipeout in U.S. stock market history in July.	cause_general
Systrom wrote in a blog post on Monday that he and Krieger planned to take time off and explore “our curiosity and creativity again”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Their announcement came after increasingly frequent clashes with Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg over the direction of Instagram, Bloomberg reported.	cause_general
In a statement, Zuckerberg described the two as “extraordinary product leaders”.	distant_evaluation
“I’ve learned a lot working with them for the past six years and have really enjoyed it.	distant_evaluation
I wish them all the best and I’m looking forward to seeing what they build next,” Zuckerberg said.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-07 08:25:06|Editor: Yamei	error
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Jan. 7 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. dollar changed hands in the mid-108 yen zone in early deals in Tokyo on Monday, largely in line with its levels in New York late last week.	main
As markets opened here, the dollar was quoted 108.52-53 yen compared with 108.50-60 yen in New York and 107.84-86 yen at 5 p.m. on Friday in Tokyo.	cause_general
The euro, meanwhile, fetched 1.1410-1410 dollars and 123.81-82 yen against 1.1392-1402 dollars and 123.62-72 yen in New York and 1.1407-1409 dollars and 123.02-06 yen in late Friday afternoon trade in Tokyo.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 15:12:06|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- Tokyo stocks closed sharply lower Friday, with the benchmark Nikkei stock index dropping over 2 percent, as investors offloaded issues following an overnight rout on Wall Street, triggered by concerns over the outlook for the global economy.	main
The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average dropped 452.81 points, or 2.26 percent, from last Friday to close the day at 19,561.96.	cause_specific
The broader Topix index of all First Section issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, meanwhile, lost 22.93 points, or 1.53 percent, to finish at 1,471.16.	cause_specific
Precision instrument, electric appliance and machinery-linked issues comprised those that declined the most by the close of play on the first trading day of the week.	cause_general
Markets here were closed from Monday to Thursday for holidays.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-24 19:53:21|Editor: zh	error
Imported goods from China's Hong Kong and Macao into the Chinese mainland will enjoy zero tariffs under relevant pacts on goods trade.	distant_expectations_consequences
The preferential tariff rates with Bangladesh and Laos under the Asia-Pacific Trade Agreement will be adjusted along with a reduction in the most-favored-nation (MFN) tariff rates.	distant_expectations_consequences
China will also reduce the MFN rates for 298 items of information technology products from July 1, 2019, the ministry said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In a bid to open its economy wider to the world, China lowered tariffs on an array of products from medicines to vehicles in 2018, with the general duty level down from 9.8 percent to 7.5 percent.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Dec. 24 (Xinhua) -- China will lower or remove import and export duties on a number of items starting 2019 as part of a tariff adjustment package announced Monday as the country further opens up the economy.	main
To expand imports, more than 700 items of products will be subjected to temporary import tariff rates starting Jan. 1, with the duties on the raw materials for some medicines removed, the Ministry of Finance said in an online statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tariffs on some fur imports will be reduced while relatively low temporary import tariff rates will continue to be imposed on much-needed advanced equipment such as aircraft engines as well as resource products such as natural feeds, the ministry said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Export tariffs on products including chemical fertilizers and iron ore will be scrapped, it said.	distant_expectations_consequences
China will also apply conventional tariffs on products from 23 countries and regions, including further reduction in tariffs under free trade pacts between China and relevant countries, the ministry said.	distant_expectations_consequences
This will result in lower tariffs with trade partners including New Zealand, Peru, Costa Rica, among others.	distant_expectations_consequences
The move aims to support the Belt and Road Initiative and the development of free trade areas, speed up China's economic and trade cooperation with relevant countries, and create a favorable external condition for the healthy and stable development of the economy in the long term, the ministry said.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-24 13:31:46|Editor: Li Xia	error
Video Player Close	error
SINGAPORE, Dec. 24 (Xinhua) -- Singapore's Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew 0.3 percent year on year in November, following the 0.7 percent increase in October, said the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) in a joint release on Monday.	main
The MAS Core Inflation, which excludes the costs of accommodation and private road transport, declined from 1.9 percent on a year-on-year basis in October to 1.7 percent in November.	cause_general
The authorities said the CPI decline was largely due to a sharper fall in private road transport costs, and to a lesser extent, smaller increases in the prices of services, retail items and electricity and gas, which more than offset a slower pace of decline in accommodation costs.	cause_specific
As for the MAS Core Inflation, they attributed the decline to a smaller increases in the costs of services, retail items and electricity and gas.	cause_general
The MTI and MAS reiterated their forecasts, saying the city-state will see the MAS Core Inflation rise modestly in the months ahead, and come in within the forecast range of 1.5-2 percent in 2018 and 1.5-2.5 percent in 2019.	distant_expectations_consequences
The CPI is projected to grow by about 0.5 percent in 2018, before rising to 1-2 percent in 2019, they added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 04:25:12|Editor: WX	error
Any positive development concerning the trade talks between the two sides will naturally boost U.S. soybean prices.	distant_evaluation
Adverse weather conditions in South America have also supported CBOT futures, especially soybean and corn prices, as dryness is expected to hit more than a third of Brazil's crop areas this month.	cause_specific
Brazil is another leading soybean grower in the world.	cause_general
As a result of the weather factor, combined with China trade hopes, the U.S. soybean futures posted nearly 3 percent gains this week.	cause_specific
However, a partial shutdown of the U.S. federal government has made it difficult for CBOT traders to follow official export data, as the Department of Agriculture (USDA) has not updated its export sales reports since Dec. 21, 2018.	cause_general
Traders now have to learn from other channels about new overseas purchases of U.S. soybeans and other agricultural commodities.	cause_general
CBOT wheat, which recorded a 18 percent annul rise in 2018, started the new year further higher, in step with a rally in European market.	cause_specific
World wheat prices have increased amid concerns over declining Argentine grain quality and tightening supplies from Russia and Black Sea area.	cause_general
Following recently reported export sales to Egypt, U.S. wheat might be in a position to take larger market share, with the help of a softer dollar, said analysts.	distant_expectations_consequences
Along with likely shrinking U.S. winter wheat seeding acres, AgResource, a Chicago-based Agricultural research firm, now maintains a bullish outlook into spring with an initial target of 5.50 dollars per bushel for March delivery.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Meanwhile, the corn market's upside potential is also in focus, said AgResource, given the unfavorable weather conditions in South America.	distant_evaluation
CHICAGO, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) agricultural futures closed sharply higher in the first week of 2019, boosted by dry weather impacting Brazilian crops and news about upcoming trade talks between China and the United States.	main
For the trading week which ended Jan. 4, the most active corn contract for March delivery was up 7.5 cents weekly, or 2 percent, to 3.83 dollars per bushel.	cause_specific
March wheat rose 5.2 cents, or 1.08 percent, to 5.17 dollars per bushel.	cause_specific
March soybeans rallied 26 cents, or 2.9 percent, to 9.215 dollars per bushel.	cause_specific
At the end of 2018, Chinese and U.S. heads of state stressed during a telephone conversation the latest progress in trade talks, voicing hope for further results that can bring benefits to both sides and the world.	distant_expectations_consequences
Entering new year, CBOT agricultural futures, soybeans in particular, were further uplifted by official confirmation that China and the United States would hold vice ministerial level trade consultations on January 7 and 8 in Beijing.	cause_specific
China has been the world's top soybean buyer.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 16:07:16|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- China's treasury bond futures closed lower on Friday, with the contract for settlement in March 2019 closing 0.07 percent lower at 99.52 yuan (about 14.5 U.S. dollars).	main
The contract for settlement in June 2019 closed 0.05 percent lower at 99.5 yuan.	main
The contract for settlement in September 2019 closed 0.79 percent lower at 98.76 yuan.	main
The contracts are agreements to buy or sell treasury bonds at a predetermined price on a set date.	cause_general
They allow investors to bet on and profit from the movements in the value of the bonds.	cause_general
The treasury bond futures were launched at the Shanghai-based China Financial Futures Exchange and started trading on Sept. 6, 2013.	distant_historical
(This article is generated by Xinhua News Robot.)	error
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 07:25:28|Editor: ZD	error
The Nasdaq Composite Index plummeted 202.43 points, or 3.04 percent, to 6,463.50.	cause_general
The Cboe Volatility index, widely considered the best fear gauge in the stock market, rose 9.6 percent to 25.45 on Thursday.	cause_general
As of Thursday, the S&P U.S.	main_consequence
Listed China 50 index stood at 2,295.78, marking a 0.2-percent increase for the month-to-date returns and a 28.65-percent loss for the year-to-date returns.	main_consequence
Video Player Close	error
NEW YORK, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- U.S.-listed Chinese companies traded broadly lower on Thursday with all of the top 10 stocks by weight in the S&P U.S.	main
Listed China 50 index ending the day on a downbeat note.	main
Shares of BeiGene and TAL education group plunged 5.68 percent and 4.85 percent, respectively, leading the laggards.	cause_specific
Shares of Baidu fell 4.65 percent, ranking the third among the red tally.	cause_specific
U.S. stocks closed with steep losses on Thursday following Apple's slash of its first-quarter revenue forecast and downbeat economic data, stoking fears of slowing global economic growth.	cause_general
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 600.02 points, or 2.83 percent, dramatically lower to 22,686.49.	cause_general
The S&P 500 slumped 62.14 points, or 2.48 percent, to 2,447.89.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-29 00:47:34|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
ABC also published articles regarding Xi's visit, saying that President Xi's visit to Spain will open up a new page for bilateral relations and the enhancement of mutual understanding, and the Belt and Road Initiative has rejuvenated the ancient commercial road, from which Spain should not detach itself.	distant_expectations_consequences
Spanish newspaper El Confidencial expects that President Xi's visit could yield more concrete fruits in bilateral cooperation, so that the Spanish public could feel the positive influences brought by the results.	distant_expectations_consequences
Alberto Rubio, director of Spanish newspaper The Diplomat, said that undoubtedly China is a partner of great significance for Spain, adding that there is huge potential for bilateral cooperation, and there are still many fields to explore in this relationship.	distant_evaluation
"Xi also said in the article that a major task of the trip this time ""is to engage with leaders of host countries and major economies in discussions on ways to enhance unity among the international community, improve global governance, develop partnerships, and deepen friendship and cooperation for peace, stability, development and prosperity of the world."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Xulio Rios, director of Spain's Observatory of Chinese Politics, said Xi's article is of huge realistic significance and noble ambitions.	distant_evaluation
"Xi quoted Spanish philosopher Jose Ortega Gasset in his article as saying that ""one can only make progress when he thinks big, and move forward when he looks far."""	distant_evaluation
Rios said Xi's quotes aim to remind us that the China-Spain relationship not only has a long history, but also boasts huge potentials for healthy development, and that both countries should seize the valuable opportunity to deepen bilateral ties.	distant_evaluation
Jose Luis Barcelo, director of Spanish online newspaper El Mundo Financiero, said the world looks forward to knowing more about China and Xi's trip has offered more opportunities for China to establish political, commercial and cultural relations with the rest of the world, and has opened a window of hope to create a multipolar world on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.	distant_evaluation
(Xinhua correspondents Chen Yao, Xi Yue in Beijing, and Wang Xiaojun, Feng Junwei, Tian Dongdong in Madrid also contributed to the report.)	error
Video Player Close	error
"BEIJING, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping's signed article titled ""Joining Hands for New Splendor in the New Era"" published Tuesday on Spanish newspaper ABC ahead of his visit has drawn warm responses in the European country, raising high expectations for more vigorous development of the China-Spain relations."	cause_general
Spanish media and scholars hail the visit as a new historic development opportunity, and believe that the Chinese president has charted the course in his signed article for development of the two countries' relations.	distant_evaluation
"""China sees in Spain a good partner along the course of development, and China hopes to bring out the best the two economies could offer each other and make good use of existing cooperation mechanisms,"" Xi said in the article."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""We need to synergize the Belt and Road Initiative and Spain's 'Strategic Vision for Spain in Asia' and the 'Mediterranean Corridor', and actively explore cooperation in third markets for win-win cooperation in broader areas,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Spain's most read newspaper El Pais wrote that during the first state visit to Spain by a Chinese president in 13 years, the two countries seek for closer bilateral ties in various fields such as politics, economy and culture.	cause_general
The upcoming signing of a series of bilateral economic and trade agreements will boost exports of Spain's agricultural products into the Chinese market, and create favorable conditions for the two countries to explore cooperation in third markets, said El Pais.	main
The Belt and Road Initiative provides plenty of opportunities for cooperation between the Chinese and Spanish companies, and the Chinese president's visit will drive more Spanish products like grapes and pork products into the Chinese market, Spanish Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism Reyes Maroto was quoted as saying by Expansion, a key economic newspaper in Spain.	distant_expectations_consequences
File photo shows the Ras Laffan Industrial City, Qatar's principal site for production of liquefied natural gas and gas-to-liquid, administrated by Qatar Petroleum, some 80 kilometers north of the capital Doha, on Feb. 6, 2017.	error
"Al-Kaabi added that it would not be practical for Doha to ""put effort and resources and time in an organization"" in which Qatar was ""a very small player, and didn't have a real say in what happens."""	distant_evaluation
"The decision ""does come at a time when OPEC needs to hammer out a deal in the face of market skepticism in the cartel's ability to control production,"" said Ann-Louise Hittle, head of Macro Oils at Wood Mackenzie, an Edinburgh-based global energy research and consultancy firm, in a press release."	distant_evaluation
"Hittle also pointed out that as the smaller nations of OPEC have a relatively passive role in the group's decision-making, ""Qatar may also see that it has less to gain from its membership."""	distant_evaluation
The move exposed the deepening rift between Qatar and its Gulf neighbors since June 2017, when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and others severed diplomatic ties with Qatar.	cause_general
Doha's quitting OPEC consequently gave rise to concerns that Saudi Arabia, Russia and the United States, the world's top three oil producers, would gain more control over global oil policy-making, as geopolitics has been one of the main drivers behind oil prices.	distant_expectations_consequences
Russia has recently shown its willingness to cooperate with OPEC in a potential oil output cut in the face of U.S. calls for a further pullback in oil prices.	cause_general
Investors had worried that Saudi Arabia would avoid confronting the United States over oil prices.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Prior OPEC-Russian efforts to cut production were effective for as long as a year, but ultimately the result is loss of market share to the United States and a return to low prices,"" said Chris Low, chief economist at U.S. securities broker firm FTN Financial, in a note to media."	distant_evaluation
"Helmig said that despite investors' anticipation of an OPEC announcement of a production cut, the market has been very cautious and ""awaiting more details of size and timing of a production change."""	distant_evaluation
BIGGEST LNG PRODUCER	cause_general
(Xinhua/AFP)	error
Analysts said Qatar's decision would not have a significant impact on oil prices as its production accounts for only 2 percent of OPEC's total output.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yet the smallest Middle East oil producer in OPEC is currently the world's biggest liquefied natural gas (LNG) exporter.	cause_general
Al-Kaabi said his country plans to increase LNG output to 110 million tons per year by 2024, calling Doha's withdrawal decision part of a long-term strategy.	distant_expectations_consequences
Energy market watchers believed that Doha's latest move indicated that the small Gulf nation is seeking dominance in the global LNG market.	distant_evaluation
"""Qatar's OPEC exit underlines the country's aim to maintain its place in the global LNG market,"" said Lynn Morris-Akinyemi, a research analyst at Wood Mackenzie."	distant_evaluation
Helmig also said the decision made sense given the volatile nature of global geo-politics.	distant_evaluation
"""Within the complex geo-politics inside OPEC and the focus on oil, the Qatari position is not a surprise."	distant_evaluation
"Their stated position is to focus on expanding their LNG portfolio."""	distant_evaluation
by Xinhua writers Ma Qian, Wang Naishui, Liu Yanan	error
NEW YORK, Dec. 3 (Xinhua) -- Qatar's announcement Monday to withdraw from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) sparked investors' concerns over a more volatile policy-making in the global oil market, amid persistent fears of oversupply and shrinking demand shown in constant price slides over the last two months.	main
"""The high volatility and large down move of the last 60 days will have a lasting impact on trading going into first quarter of 2019,"" said Albert Helmig, CEO of Grey House, a private consulting firm focused on market structure, risk management and price models."	distant_expectations_consequences
CONCERNS BUILD UP	distant_evaluation
Qatar's decision to end its 57-year membership in the oil cartel on Jan. 1, 2019 came three days ahead of a meeting between the Saudi-led OPEC and its allies to reshape global oil policy to grapple with broad price drops.	main
Qatar's Minister of Energy Saad al-Kaabi told press that Doha would still attend OPEC's upcoming meeting on Thursday and Friday in Vienna.	cause_general
"""We are not saying we are going to get out of the oil business, but it is controlled by an organization managed by a country,"" said al-Kaabi."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-24 20:41:30|Editor: Liangyu	error
It is one of the key hydropower resource bases that the Lao government is pushing forward to explore.	cause_general
PowerChina is developing a full basin cascade hydropower project at that site.	main
As of August this year, the first phase of the project has been put into operation and has delivered more than 3 billion KWh of electricity to the northern part of Laos.	main
The second phase of the project is expected to be completed by 2020 and will guarantee 12 percent of the electricity supply in Laos.	cause_general
"""Based on the actual needs of Laos, integrating with Laos' social and economic development and people's livelihood planning, we creatively propose a scientific development plan of seven-dam cascade project, which is fully recognized by the Lao government,"" said Huang Yande, assisting general manager of PowerChina Resources Limited and general manager of the branch company in Laos."	distant_evaluation
Bounpong Ketsadasak used to work with Laos' state-owned Electricite Du Laos (EDL) and now works as a deputy general manager in charge of PowerChina's Nam Ou phase one project.	cause_general
"Ketsadasak said that the Laos' strategy of ""Battery of Southeast Asia"" goes well with the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative, and Nam Ou cascade hydropower project was a great achievement of the Belt and Road Initiative."	distant_evaluation
"""The Belt and Road is a great cause."	distant_evaluation
"As a witness and participant, I will be devoted to it with my Chinese colleagues,"" said the Lao manager."	distant_evaluation
Bounthong Chitmany, deputy prime minister of the Lao government, spoke highly of the construction and operation of the Nam Ou cascade hydropower project and its contribution to local economic and social development.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Back in the 1990s, Sinohydro Bureau 10 Co., LTD undertook the construction of Nam Leuk Hydropower Plant, which was widely praised by the local government and society.	distant_historical
The successful construction of the Nam Leuk has consolidated a market position for Sinohydro Bureau 10 Co., LTD in Lao hydropower industry.	cause_general
Yu Mingchuan, deputy general manager of Sinohydro Bureau 10 and general manager of its Lao branch, told Xinhua that thanks to scientific management and hard work, the company has been recognized as an international and professional construction team with a good reputation in Laos.	distant_evaluation
The company is well-known in Laos for its capabilities of constructing large and medium-sized hydropower projects and installing electro-mechanical equipment.	distant_evaluation
"""Under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative, our company will strive for the economic and social development of China and Laos, and contribute to the bilateral friendship,"" Yu said."	distant_expectations_consequences
by Zhang Jianhua, Wang Shan	error
"VIENTIANE, Sept. 24 (Xinhua) -- ""Every project department of China Railway is ready to be dispatched at any time!"""	distant_evaluation
At the end of this July, when a deadly flash flood swept through Attapeu province of southern Laos, China Railway, a Chinese company constructing the China-Laos Railway in the country, provided assistance to the disaster-stricken areas without any hesitation.	cause_general
Meanwhile, Lao Asia Pacific Satellite Co., Ltd. (LAOSAT), a joint venture between China and Laos, immediately sent a technical team to provide live satellite television broadcast and emergency communication service for the victims and rescuers in the disaster-stricken Attapeu, and transmit real-time video content through the satellite network at the forefront of the disaster area.	cause_general
These cases are not rare in Laos nowadays.	distant_evaluation
Chinese enterprises have been playing an increasingly important role in enhancing people's livelihood with practical actions.	distant_evaluation
Nam Ou River is the largest eastern tributary of the Mekong River in Laos.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-30 00:23:44|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest financial institute, has posted heavy losses during past years as a spat of legal scandals and falling investment banking revenue weighed on its earnings.	distant_historical
"During the recent presentation of third quarter (Q3) figures, chief executive officer (CEO) Christian Sewing expressed confidence that ongoing corporate reforms were finally beginning to bear fruit as a ""new discipline"" in the bank took hold."	distant_evaluation
"Responding to the raids on Thursday, Deutsche Bank released a statement in which it confirmed that the police was currently investigating ""several"" of its German locations with regards to the Panama Papers."	main
"""We will communicate immediately as soon as we have more details."	distant_expectations_consequences
"We will cooperate with the authorities fully"", a statement by the bank read."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
BERLIN, Nov. 29 (Xinhua) -- German investigators have raided the offices of Deutsche Bank on Thursday as part of a probe into potential money-laundering activities by the Frankfurt-based lender.	main
Around 170 state prosecution officers, federal criminal police officers and tax investigation officers participated in the searches at six premises associated with Deutsche Bank in and around Frankfurt.	main
"A spokesperson for the local state prosecution office confirmed that the raid was prompted by suspected money laundering offenses which were identified in the wake of the so-called ""Offshore-Leaks"" and ""Panama Papers"" scandals."	cause_specific
"Two Deutsche Bank employees, as well as ""other not yet identified culprits"" are believed to have assisted customers in establishing shell corporations in tax havens and subsequently transferring funds derived through crime onto German accounts of the bank."	cause_general
An entity associated with DAX-listed institute in the British Virgin Islands is believed to have assisted more than 900 customers in such transactions with a volume of 311 million euros (353 million U.S. dollars) since 2016 alone.	cause_general
The offshore activity in question was not flagged to government authorities as being suspicious.	cause_general
As a consequence, the suspects are accused by prosecutors of having neglected their fiduciary duty to report on potential money laundering offenses although there was sufficient evidence to suggest criminal behavior on behalf of clients.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-21 22:08:42|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
NAIROBI, Nov. 21 (Xinhua) -- The African Development Bank (AfDB) said Wednesday it has approved two loans worth 27.5 billion shillings (about 268 million U.S. dollars) for the completion of construction work on Thwake dam on Thwake River in southern Kenya.	main
The African bank said in a statement that the package was requested by Kenyan authorities.	cause_specific
"""This additional support follows a 76 million euros loan granted by the Bank in 2013 to start building the dam as part of the Thwake Multi-Purpose Development Program (TMWDP) which aims to provide drinking water, hydroelectric energy and irrigation,"" AfDB said."	cause_general
Thwake dam, a strategic water supply project for the large semi-arid area of Makueni County and surrounding regions, comprises a multi-purpose dam for water supply, hydropower generation and irrigation development.	cause_general
It will also provide regulation of flows on Athi River downstream of the dam for flood and drought mitigation.	distant_expectations_consequences
AfDB said the completion of the 80.5m high multi-purpose dam will enable the storage of 681 million cubic meters of water, of which 625 million cubic meters will be used for electricity production and downstream irrigation of agricultural land; 22 million cubic meters for upstream irrigation and 34 million for human use.	distant_expectations_consequences
Construction in the initial phase of the TMWDP project should be completed in December 2022, the lender said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-24 13:04:42|Editor: Lu Hui	error
Each has made tremendous efforts over the past 40 years to overcome all kinds of obstacles and move economic and trade relations forward, which has served as the ballast and propeller of the overall bilateral relationship, according to the white paper.	cause_general
"However, the new administration of the U.S. government has trumpeted ""America First"" since taking office in 2017, and has abandoned the fundamental norms of mutual respect and equal consultation that guide international relations, said the white paper."	distant_evaluation
"""Rather, it has brazenly preached unilateralism, protectionism and economic hegemony, making false accusations against many countries and regions, particularly China, intimidating other countries through economic measures such as imposing tariffs, and attempting to impose its own interests on China through extreme pressure,"" according to the white paper."	distant_evaluation
The white paper stressed China has responded from the perspective of the common interests of both parties as well as the world trade order, observing the principle of resolving disputes through dialogue and consultation, and answering the U.S. concerns with the greatest level of patience and good faith.	distant_evaluation
The Chinese side has been dealing with these differences with an attitude of seeking common ground while shelving divergence, the white paper said.	distant_evaluation
"""It has overcome many difficulties and made enormous efforts to stabilize China-U.S. economic and trade relations by holding rounds of discussions with the U.S. side and proposing practical solutions."""	distant_evaluation
However, the U.S. side has been contradicting itself and constantly challenging China, the white paper said.	distant_evaluation
"""As a result, trade and economic friction between the two sides has escalated quickly over a short period of time, causing serious damage to the economic and trade relations which have developed over the years through the collective work of the two governments and the two peoples, and posing a grave threat to the multilateral trading system and the principle of free trade."""	distant_expectations_consequences
The Chinese government published the white paper to clarify the facts about China-U.S. economic and trade relations, demonstrate China's stance on trade friction with the United States, and pursue reasonable solutions.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Sept. 24 (Xinhua) -- China published a white paper on Monday to clarify the facts about China-U.S. economic and trade relations, demonstrate its stance on trade friction with the United States, and pursue reasonable solutions.	main
Excluding the foreword, the 36,000-Chinese-character white paper is comprised of six parts, which are mutually-beneficial and win-win China-U.S. cooperation in the trade and economic field, clarification of the facts about China-U.S. trade and economic relations, the trade protectionist practices of the U.S. administration, the trade bullyism practices of the U.S. administration, damage of the improper practices of the U.S. administration to global economy, and China's position.	main
China is the world's biggest developing country and the United States is the biggest developed country, said the white paper.	cause_general
"""Trade and economic relations between China and the United States are of great significance for the two countries as well as for the stability and development of the world economy."""	distant_evaluation
The white paper said the two countries are at different stages of development and have different economic systems, and therefore some level of trade friction is only natural.	distant_evaluation
"""The key, however, lies in how to enhance mutual trust, promote cooperation, and manage differences."""	distant_evaluation
In the spirit of equality, rationality, and moving to meet each other halfway, the two countries have set up a number of communication and coordination mechanisms such as the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade, the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, and the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue, the white paper said.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-20 14:41:23|Editor: Li Xia	error
According to the ADB, the initial assessments suggest over 2.2 billion U.S. dollars in damage and losses in the affected provinces.	cause_specific
In October, the bank approved an emergency grant of 3 million U.S. dollars from the Asia Pacific Disaster Respond Fund for immediate relief in Central Sulawesi.	cause_general
In addition, it is also supporting the Indonesian government with technical assistance in post-disaster needs assessments and reconstruction planning.	cause_general
The ADB said it is preparing new technical assistance to build capacity for robust monitoring, evaluation, and financial reporting of the rehabilitation and reconstruction plans.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
MANILA, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Asian Development Bank (ADB) said on Tuesday that it has approved a 500-million-U.S. dollar emergency assistance loan to support Indonesia's recovery and rehabilitation of Lombok and Central Sulawesi after recent disasters.	main
The Manila-based bank said the loan will provide immediate funding for the government's recovery and rehabilitation action plans, targeting urgent needs such as temporary shelters, social protection and services, as well as economic recovery through cash assistance, credit schemes and skills improvement programs.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""ADB's emergency assistance loan provides timely and flexible financing to help mitigate the devastating impacts of the recent disasters,"" said Sona Shrestha, ADB's Director for Public Management, Financial Sector, and Trade Division for Southeast Asia."	distant_evaluation
"""The quick-disbursing loan modality will help ensure that post-disaster recovery and rehabilitation expenditures are met without compromising critical economic and social development expenditures in the national budget,"" she added."	distant_expectations_consequences
The Emergency Assistance for Recovery and Rehabilitation from Recent Disasters is part of ADB's response to two recent disasters that hit Indonesia including a magnitude-7.0 earthquake that struck Lombok, West Nusa Tenggara province, in August, and a magnitude-7.4 earthquake that struck Central Sulawesi province in September.	cause_specific
These disasters claimed the lives of more than 2,600 people, injured some 18,000 people and displaced more than half a million, according to the ADB.	cause_specific
The ADB said housing and public infrastructure have suffered extensive damage, adding that the impact of the Central Sulawesi disaster has been particularly severe as the earthquake caused landslides, tsunami, and liquefaction, a condition where the ground itself loses stability and takes on liquid properties.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-04 20:19:34|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
Fed up after not being able to sell his onion produce of around 750 kg at a price more than 1.41 Indian Rupees (around 2 cents) per kg, a farmer in India's southwestern state Maharashtra sent whatever money he could receive by selling his total produce to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a money order as a mark of protest and to highlight the farmers' plight.	distant_anecdotal
"Sanjay Sathe, the farmer from Maharashtra's Nasik district, reportedly said, ""I produced 750 kg of onion this season but was offered a rate of one Indian rupee per kilogram at Niphad wholesale market last week."	distant_anecdotal
Finally I could negotiate a deal for 1.40 Indian rupees per kilogram and received 1,064 Indian rupees for 750 kg.	distant_anecdotal
It was painful to see such paltry returns on four months of toil.	distant_anecdotal
Hence I have donated 1,064 Indian Rupees to Prime Minister Disaster Relief Fund as a protest.	distant_anecdotal
"I had to pay additional 54 Indian rupees for sending it by money order."""	distant_anecdotal
"Interestingly, Sathe was among the selected few ""progressive farmers"" who were picked by the Union Agriculture Ministry in 2010 to interact with former U.S. President Barack Obama during the latter's visit."	distant_anecdotal
Strangely, while on one hand, the farmers are not able to recover their bare minimum cost, on the other hand, the retailers are openly selling the same commodity at least 20 times the cost which is paid to the farmers, thereby reaping heavy profits.	cause_general
Sribhagwan Singh, a farmer in Kanganheri village located in southwest Delhi, laments that he grew garlic on his farms and reaped a harvest of around 800 kg, but is not able to sell it in the market as he is getting a price of not more than 10 Indian rupees per kg.	distant_anecdotal
"""The bare minimum cost which I incurred in growing this garlic produce was at least 25 Indian rupees per kilogram."	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
For over the past three months I have been contacting vendors in big vegetable markets in and around Delhi, but not able to find a buyer of my produce for more than 10 Indian rupees per kilogram.	distant_anecdotal
"The final conclusion is that farming is a loss making entity in India, and farmers have no option but to quit it and look for some alternative source of income,"" he told Xinhua."	distant_anecdotal
He added that the same garlic was being sold in retail market in Delhi and surrounding areas at the rate of 150 Indian rupees per kg.	distant_anecdotal
Only a few days ago, thousands of farmers congregated in Delhi from across the country and carried out a two-day agitation against the central government, demanding loan waivers and increase in minimum support prices (MSPs) for their agriculture produce.	main
Due to big amounts of loans standing in their names and finding no possibilities of getting a stable income from agriculture, the farmers are driven to a situation where they find no alternative but to commit suicides.	distant_evaluation
Farmers suicides has a major cause of concern in India for many years now, with the state of Maharashtra being on top.	cause_general
The country's Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh, however, claims that the number of farmers suicides in on the decline.	distant_evaluation
A couple of months ago he informed the parliament that the number of farmers suicides and agricultural laborers during 2016 had come down approximately by 9.77 percent compared to the previous years.	distant_historical
"""The number of suicides has come down from 12,602 in 2015 to 11,370 in 2016,"" he was quoted as saying."	distant_historical
The maximum number of these suicides were reported from the state of Maharashtra.	distant_historical
by Pankaj Yadav	error
The main reasons behind agriculture being a loss making activity in India is the large dependence on monsoons and lack of use of modern farming techniques.	cause_general
Due to non-availability of water resources round the year, a large chunk of farmers depend on monsoon rains.	cause_general
At times, due to poor rains, or floods caused by excess rains, standing crops get damaged thereby resulting in huge losses to the farmers.	cause_general
Besides, use of traditional farming methods and non-acceptance of modern equipment and techniques, also results in poor produce in terms of yield per hectare, as compared to other countries.	cause_general
In a bid to address the farmers' woes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that a new agriculture export policy will be unveiled soon to boost farm income as the government was on track to achieve the target of doubling farmers' income by 2022.	distant_expectations_consequences
The main thrust of the policy would be fixing the minimum support price (MSP) of crops at least 1.5 times of the cost of production.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Crop Insurance Schemes have been in place as a means of protecting the agriculturist against financial losses due to uncertainties that may arise from crop failures or losses arising from named or all unforeseen perils beyond their control.	cause_general
One such scheme - Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) (or, Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme) aims at supporting sustainable production in agriculture sector by way of providing financial support to farmers suffering crop loss/damage arising out of unforeseen events; stabilizing their income to ensure their continuance in farming; encouraging farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices; ensuring flow of credit to the agriculture sector which will contribute to food security, crop diversification and enhancing growth and competitiveness of agriculture sector besides protecting farmers from production risks.	cause_general
Amidst all this, the farmers community in India continues to live in abject poverty in the hope of seeing the government's polices yielding results on the ground on fine day.	distant_evaluation
NEW DELHI, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- India is basically an agriculture-based economy as it remains among the top producers of commodities including wheat, rice, cotton, cereals, vegetables and fruits, milk and milk products.	distant_evaluation
Nearly 70 percent of India's population still lives in villages and depends, directly or indirectly, on agriculture for earning a livelihood.	cause_general
Agriculture contributes to the extent of 18 percent towards India's gross domestic product (GDP), even as the country accounts for nearly 7 percent of total global agricultural output.	cause_general
As per the fourth advance estimates (released in August) for the year 2017-2018, total food grains production in the country was estimated at 284.83 million tons which was higher by 9.72 million tons than the previous record production of foodgrain of 275.11 million tons achieved during 2016-2017.	distant_historical
However, despite all this rosy picture, farmers in India are a dejected lot these days, and are venting out their anger against the government's policies, which they allege, overlook their interests and basic needs.	distant_evaluation
Barely able to recover their basic costs, the farmers allege that agriculture is fast turning into an unfeasible activity.	distant_evaluation
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan’s core machinery orders rose less than expected in October following an earthquake in the previous month, pointing to more subdued business investment as earnings growth slows and as trade protectionism increases headwinds for the economy.	main
“The government has already drawn up extra spending plans, which highlights how worried they are about the economy.”	distant_evaluation
Earnings growth at Japanese manufacturers is already being crimped by the U.S.-China trade dispute, with several companies downgrading their profit forecasts recently due to cooling demand.	cause_general
Orders from manufacturers rose 12.3 percent on-month in October after a 17.3 percent decline in September, due to an increase in orders from auto makers and oil refiners, the data showed.	cause_general
Service-sector orders rose 4.5 percent, following a 17.1 percent decline in the previous month, due to orders from shipping companies and railway operators.	cause_general
“Core” machinery orders exclude those for ships and from electricity utilities.	cause_general
Policy makers and investors fear that international trade tensions and slowing global growth could hurt Japan’s export-led economy.	distant_expectations_consequences
Japan’s government will spend about 3 trillion yen ($26.6 billion) in a second extra budget for this fiscal year to boost infrastructure, support farmers and deal with natural disasters, two government sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Bank of Japan’s quarterly tankan business sentiment survey is forecast to show big manufacturers’ confidence worsened for a fourth straight quarter in December due to uncertainties over the global economy and the China-U.S. trade conflict.	distant_expectations_consequences
The BOJ will release the data on Dec. 14.	cause_general
Corporate sentiment is closely watched, because companies tend to cut capital expenditure when they grow less confident about the future.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO - A worker stands on a crane which is parked at a construction site at Keihin industrial zone in Kawasaki, south of Tokyo, June 13, 2012.	error
In another warning sign, Japan on Monday revised down gross domestic product in the third quarter to show the largest economic contraction in more than four years, hurt by a steep decline in capital expenditure.	cause_general
This month in Argentina, U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed a truce that delayed the U.S. increase of tariffs on Chinese goods.	cause_general
However, there are concerns this truce will not hold after Canada’s arrest of Chinese tech company Huawei’s chief financial officer for extradition to the United States.	distant_expectations_consequences
U.S. automakers and labor unions have also indicated they want to cap the yen’s weakness and limit the number of Japanese auto imports in trade talks with Tokyo expected next year, which could also put a dampener on business investment.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Toru Hanai/File Photo	error
The 7.6 percent rise month-on-month in core machinery orders, considered a leading indicator of capital expenditure, undershot the median estimate for a 10.5 percent gain.	main
That followed a record slide of 18.3 percent in September, when an earthquake struck northern Japan and flooding disrupted business in western parts of the nation.	distant_historical
The rebound in machinery orders could be short-lived as the U.S.-China trade war, Japan’s looming trade talks with the United States, and a slowdown in overseas economies are expected to weigh on corporate sentiment.	distant_expectations_consequences
Underscoring the risks to the outlook, the Cabinet Office lowered its assessment of machinery orders to say there are signs its recovery is stalling.	cause_general
Weakening capital expenditure puts Japan’s government in a bind, because policymakers have long predicted that gains in business investment to cope with a shrinking labor force would bolster growth and shield it from risks posed by overseas economies.	distant_evaluation
“Downside risks have increased, because underlying demand is weakening and companies are worried that trade friction will hurt overseas profits,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-11 17:27:10|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
"Bilateral ties ""have quickly progressed,"" especially following Xi's visit, and ""are at a historic peak,"" the ambassador said."	distant_evaluation
The two countries are stepping up exchange in a range of areas, from trade and economy to politics, science and technology, as well as culture and education, he added.	cause_general
China responded rapidly and effectively when Ecuador was hit by a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake that ravaged communities along the country's northern coast on April 16, 2016, leaving 673 people dead and extensive structural damage.	distant_historical
"""The Chinese government and people felt empathy for the Ecuadorian government and people suffering from the disaster, and offered timely aid,"" said Wang."	distant_evaluation
"""Close friendship shortens distances."""	distant_evaluation
"Despite being separated by vast oceans, China and Ecuador ""have become good friends with sincerity and mutual trust, and good partners in mutually beneficial cooperation,"" said the ambassador."	distant_evaluation
He said the two countries have collaborated closely and supported one another in international and regional affairs.	distant_evaluation
"Ecuador ""has not only been a strategic partner in energy (cooperation), a target country for Chinese financing and investment, and a market for infrastructure works, but also a trade partner with great potential in Latin America,"" said Wang."	distant_evaluation
He noted that China is now Ecuador's second-largest trade partner after the United States, with bilateral exchange amounting to 4.62 billion U.S. dollars during the first 10 months of 2018, which marks a year-on-year increase of 36.6 percent.	cause_general
"""More and more Ecuadorian bananas and shrimp are served at Chinese tables, and Ecuadorian roses are well-liked by Chinese consumers,"" said Wang."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
Currently, more than 90 Chinese companies are operating in Ecuador in sectors including energy, mining, construction and infrastructure.	cause_general
Wang highlighted that many projects involving Chinese companies have become emblems of the strategic bilateral cooperation, leading to tangible benefits for the Ecuadorian people.	distant_evaluation
In January, at the second ministerial meeting of the China-CELAC (Community of Latin American and Caribbean States) Forum held in Santiago, Chile, Ecuador expressed an interest in participating in the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative to boost global trade and infrastructure, the diplomat said.	distant_historical
"Despite the geographic distance, there is ""great potential and a positive outlook in bilateral cooperation in all fields,"" said Wang."	distant_evaluation
"""Those who unite behind same ideals can overcome all physical distance."""	distant_evaluation
QUITO, Dec. 10 (Xinhua) -- Ecuadorian President Lenin Moreno's state visit to China will strengthen the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries, Chinese Ambassador to Ecuador Wang Yulin said.	main
"In a recent interview with Xinhua, Wang held Ecuador as ""a very important partner ... for pragmatic cooperation in the region,"" highlighting the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries."	distant_evaluation
"The visit, scheduled for Tuesday to Thursday, will actively improve bilateral cooperation to yield ""growth, maturity and shared gains in the process of cooperation,"" Wang told Xinhua in a recent interview."	main
The trip will mark Moreno's first visit to China since he took office on May 24, 2017.	cause_general
The two countries raised ties to the level of a comprehensive strategic partnership in November 2016, during Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit to Ecuador, the first by a Chinese head of state to the South American country since the two nations established diplomatic ties in 1980.	distant_historical
"Wang said he has witnessed numerous ""memorable historic moments"" in bilateral ties in the past three years as ambassador."	distant_evaluation
"Pragmatic cooperation between China and Ecuador in diverse areas has a ""broad future,"" said Wang."	distant_evaluation
A public pension fund in Louisiana has sued the directors of Caremark Rx, contending that their unanimous backing of the company's $21 billion merger with CVS over a rival $26 billion bid from Express Scripts improperly benefits Caremark executives at the expense of shareholders.	main
The lawsuit filed by the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees' Retirement System contends that the CVS deal is unfair to Caremark shareholders not only because its price is significantly below the rival bid.	cause_specific
The pension fund's lawyers also argue that Caremark directors improperly accepted deal protection provisions in the CVS bid that act to deter other bidders, effectively making the deal a fait accompli even before the shareholders vote.	cause_specific
First, there is the $675 million breakup fee to be paid by Caremark in cash to CVS, if the target walks away.	cause_specific
Then, there is a so-called last-look provision, which gives CVS the chance to come back and top any rival bid.	cause_specific
''Any potential third-party bidders will be loath to invest the time and resources necessary to pursue a superior bid while knowing full well that CVS retains control of the bidding,'' the pension fund's lawsuit says.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Louisiana fund accuses the Caremark board of supporting the deal to benefit Edwin M. Crawford, the company's chief executive, and other executives.	distant_evaluation
Under the terms of the deal, nine Caremark executives will join the combined company and Mr. Crawford will become chairman of its board and receive an estimated $48 million in exit pay.	cause_specific
While he would probably receive a similar amount if Caremark sold out to Express Scripts, Mr. Crawford might not be asked to join the combined company under the terms of such a deal.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Louisiana pension fund also noted that the CVS deal guarantees a job at the merged company for Mr. Crawford's son, Andrew.	cause_general
A Caremark proxy filed last year described the younger Mr. Crawford as senior vice president for industry analysis and underwriting.	distant_historical
Among the benefits Caremark executives and directors will receive if the CVS deal goes through, the fund's lawsuit contends, are positions at the combined company and indemnification from penalties and fines that may result when criminal and regulatory investigations into possible stock option backdating by Caremark officials are concluded.	cause_specific
The merger with CVS would also allow an unspecified number of Caremark directors -- perhaps all of them -- to get lucrative seats on the combined company's board.	cause_specific
In its offer, CVS has also agreed to cover any costs associated with stock option backdating at Caremark, practices that are under federal investigation and the subject of another civil suit filed against the company in Tennessee.	cause_specific
That lawsuit has challenged 4.6 million options granted to Mr. Crawford as having been possibly backdated.	cause_general
Stock sales covered by those options generated $262 million for Mr. Crawford, the Tennessee lawsuit contends.	cause_general
''The inequities could not be more apparent,'' said Gerald H. Silk, a lawyer at Bernstein, Litowitz, Berger & Grossmann, one of the firms representing the Louisiana fund.	distant_evaluation
''Shareholders get a coercive, zero-premium deal while Crawford gets a $48 million payout, jobs for himself and his son and complete indemnification for his alleged option backdating transgressions.''	distant_evaluation
A Caremark spokesman called the pension fund's lawsuit meritless and said the company would defend against it vigorously.	distant_expectations_consequences
As for the Express Scripts suit, he said it was a ''frivolous'' attempt to interfere with the CVS merger.	distant_evaluation
''Contrary to allegations made by Express Scripts, the provisions of the CVS merger agreement are lawful and appropriate,'' the spokesman said.	distant_evaluation
To be sure, many of the terms in the CVS bid for Caremark -- the no-shop provisions and last-look opportunity -- are common in the merger world.	distant_evaluation
Yesterday, Express Scripts filed suit to block the CVS deal, arguing that the terms deal supported by the Caremark board prevents its directors from executing their fiduciary duties to shareholders.	cause_general
But the suit filed in Delaware, comes at a time when directors' actions as fiduciaries for their shareholders are under increased scrutiny.	cause_general
As a result, the case, which is being heard by Chancellor William B. Chandler III, provides an opportunity for him to opine on the matter of directors' duties broadly and whether the Caremark directors exercised those obligations in particular.	distant_expectations_consequences
This is familiar territory for Chancellor Chandler, who oversaw the Disney case of 2005.	distant_evaluation
In that case he chastised the company's directors for essentially rubberstamping a contract struck by Michael D. Eisner with Michael S. Ovitz that resulted in a $140 million severance payout after Mr. Ovitz was terminated a short time later.	distant_historical
Chancellor Chandler has asked for a hearing on the issues before Caremark's shareholders vote on the CVS bid, now scheduled to take place in mid-March.	cause_general
In a Dec. 29 meeting with the parties in the case, Chancellor Chandler said that while he was certain Caremark would argue forcefully that its directors exercised their duties of care and loyalty to the company's owners, he also concluded that ''there is a tenable argument on the other side, and nonfrivolous claims here on the other side, that at least need to be tested against a fuller record.''	distant_evaluation
Correction: January 12, 2007, Friday An article in Business Day yesterday about a lawsuit filed by a pension fund over the proposed merger between Caremark RX and CVS misstated the amount of exit pay that Caremark's chief executive, Edwin M. Crawford, would receive if a rival bid was accepted.	cause_specific
If Express Scripts succeeds in its rival bid, Mr. Crawford would receive $57.6 million to $62.4 million, not an estimated $48 million.	cause_specific
The lawsuits, filed in Delaware Chancery Court, will once again bring the fiduciary duties of directors in the post-Enron world to the forefront.	main_consequence
Delaware is where most major United States companies are incorporated.	cause_general
Caremark accepted the CVS bid on Nov. 1, even though the stock-for-stock deal offered no premium to Caremark's market price at the time.	distant_historical
Caremark's directors have recommended that company shareholders approve the deal at a meeting that is expected to occur before March 16.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Monday, Caremark rejected the $26 billion bid made on Dec. 18 by Express Scripts, saying that it would ''result in a highly leveraged and weakened business'' if it was approved by shareholders.	distant_evaluation
The Express Scripts offer of $58.50 a share is approximately 15 percent higher than the CVS bid.	cause_general
Private equity has done much bigger deals in the last two years.	distant_historical
Should stubs become more prevalent, Mr. Rowe said, shareholders may no longer lose out on their investments.	distant_anecdotal
''Rather than just arbitrarily squeeze shareholders out, shareholders can now participate,'' he said.	distant_anecdotal
''I don't see any downsides as all.''	distant_anecdotal
But stubs are not a panacea for shareholders.	distant_evaluation
Private equity deals often take several years to realize a profit, and investors must be willing to have their holdings locked up in the interim.	distant_evaluation
Moreover, not all deals make a profit, leaving buyout firms and stub holders with a loss.	distant_evaluation
At the same time, the public shareholders would be at the whim of the private equity holders with little or no say in the business.	distant_evaluation
The use of a stub in the Harman deal comes after a similar provision was suggested, but ultimately not used, in the sale of Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio company.	cause_general
After two investors in Clear Channel -- Fidelity Investments and Highfields Capital Management, a hedge fund -- balked at the price, the two suitors, Bain Capital and Thomas H. Lee Partners, sent a letter to the Clear Channel board proposing alternatives to raise their offer.	cause_general
Among them was a stub for existing shareholders.	cause_general
But the $8 billion buyout for Harman International Industries, the maker of JBL speakers and Harman Kardon home theater systems, may prove the most groundbreaking.	distant_expectations_consequences
But the bidders eventually chose to raise their offer to $27.6 billion, from $26 billion.	cause_general
And stubs sometimes have failed to entice shareholders into selling their companies.	distant_evaluation
This month, a private equity group in Britain seeking to buy J Sainsbury, the supermarket chain, sweetened its bid by offering up to 25 percent of the company to its shareholders.	cause_general
In the end, the retailer's founding family, which holds 18 percent of the company's shares, rejected the offer.	cause_general
Beyond the stub, owners of Harman stock would receive $120 a share, a 17 percent premium over the closing price on Wednesday.	cause_general
Shares of Harman rose $19.94, or 19.44 percent, to $122.50, suggesting that investors may be anticipating a higher rival offer.	distant_evaluation
Harman can solicit competing bids for 50 days.	cause_general
For Sidney Harman, the 88-year-old founder of the company, who owns about 5 percent of its stock, the sale will not end his involvement in the business, which he started in 1953.	cause_general
As part of the deal, which is expected to close this summer, he will remain as executive chairman.	main
Mr. Harman has sold the company before, once for $100 million in 1977 after he joined the Carter administration as an assistant commerce secretary.	distant_historical
The buyers, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Goldman Sachs, have offered Harman shareholders a chance to retain a stake in the newly private company and share in any profit made if the company is later sold or taken public.	main
(His wife, Jane Harman, is a United States representative from California.)	cause_general
The company performed poorly under the owner at the time, the Beatrice Company, and Mr. Harman bought it back in 1980 for $55 million.	distant_historical
The environment for private equity has grown toxic in other ways as well.	distant_evaluation
Unions in the United States and Europe, critical of the cuts in jobs or worker benefits that often accompany buyouts, have called for increased government scrutiny of the deals.	cause_general
This week, a report released by the Service Employees International Union, which represents nearly two million workers, suggested that lawmakers examine certain tax breaks that buyout firms enjoy.	cause_general
Under the terms of the deal, the public shareholders could hold as much as 27 percent of the private company.	main
The offer represents a major concession to public shareholders, who have increasingly voiced concern about selling their shares to private equity firms only to watch the new owners reap large profits by flipping the companies a few years later, and in some cases a few months.	distant_evaluation
The Harman deal tries to assuage stockholders by using a provision known as a stub, as in a ticket stub, apparently its first use in the United States amid the latest buyout boom.	distant_evaluation
Douglas A. Cifu, a partner at the law firm Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison, said that companies and shareholders might press harder for stub provisions in future buyouts and that private equity might be more willing to offer them.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It helps mute some of the criticism that private equity firms are taking all the upside for themselves and are quick-flip artists,'' Mr. Cifu said.	distant_evaluation
Frederick E. Rowe Jr., a money manager in Dallas who derides many private equity buyouts as ''open sores,'' said last night that the use of a stub in the Harman deal was a step in the right direction.	distant_anecdotal
Stocks have been a great investment in the last 80 years, with an average return of about 10 percent a year.	cause_specific
By the end of the next year, the price has fallen back to $10 and the investor sells his 200 shares.	distant_evaluation
A buy-and-hold investor who bought at $10, held the stock for two years, and then sold at $10 would have had a zero return.	distant_evaluation
But our friend who tried to time the market did much worse: over the two years, he invested $3,000 in the stock and ended up with only $2,000.	distant_evaluation
E	distant_evaluation
ven though the stock broke even, the investor lost money because of bad timing: most of his money was invested right before the market fell.	distant_evaluation
To calculate a meaningful measure of the investor's return, it is necessary to weight the yearly returns by the dollars invested during that year.	cause_general
When Mr. Dichev calculates the dollar-weighted returns on this stock according to his preferred method, our hypothetical investor's average yearly return ends up being negative 16.8 percent, far below the zero return that the buy-and-hold investor would have received.	distant_evaluation
Some mutual fund families and reporting services currently report dollar-weighted returns for individual investors and funds.	cause_general
Mr. Dichev's contribution is to apply this methodology to the stock market as a whole, weighting each month's return by the amount of money invested in the market during that period.	cause_general
An investor who bought a value-weighted portfolio of stocks in the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange in 1926 and held them until 2002 would have earned an average annual return of about 10 percent.	distant_historical
But have investors in the stock market done as well as stocks?	distant_evaluation
By contrast, an individual who bought in 1926 but moved his dollars in and out of the market in the same pattern as the average dollar invested in the market would have earned a return of only 8.6 percent a year.	distant_historical
For Nasdaq, the difference between buy-and-hold and dollar-weighted returns is even larger.	distant_historical
An investor who bought the Nasdaq index in 1973 and sold in 2002 would have earned an average yearly return of 9.6 percent.	distant_historical
But the typical investor in Nasdaq earned only 4.3 percent over this period.	distant_historical
This is true not just in the United States -- the same thing occurred in 18 of 19 international markets that Mr. Dichev examined.	cause_general
It appears that taken as a whole, investors just aren't very good at market timing.	distant_evaluation
But why?	distant_evaluation
There's an old adage on Wall Street: ''Buy on the rumor, sell on the news.''	distant_evaluation
Unfortunately, small investors do not seem to follow this rule.	distant_evaluation
Terrance Odean, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has found that small individual investors tend to buy stocks when they are mentioned in the media: they buy on the news.	distant_evaluation
Surprisingly, the answer is no.	distant_evaluation
The professional and institutional investors are happy to sell to retail investors in such periods.	distant_evaluation
A recent article in The Financial Analysts Journal by Thomas Arnold, John H. Earl Jr. and David S. North, all finance professors at the University of Richmond, called ''Are Cover Stories Effective Contrarian Indicators?''	cause_general
offers an intriguing finding.	cause_general
The professors look at how a company's stock responds to a cover story in BusinessWeek, Fortune and Forbes.	cause_general
They find that positive stories follow periods of positive performance and negative stories follow periods of negative performance, which admittedly is not too surprising.	cause_general
More interesting, they also find that the appearance of a cover story tends to signal the end of the abnormal performance.	cause_general
Hence, individuals who trade on such ''news'' are not likely to do well.	distant_expectations_consequences
This is not to say that articles in the financial press are not worth reading.	distant_evaluation
Quite the contrary.	distant_evaluation
They often provide insightful reporting and in-depth analysis.	distant_evaluation
The average dollar invested in the stock market in those years has earned only about 8.6 percent a year.	cause_specific
But by the time the articles have been researched, written and published, they are no longer news -- the market price of the stock already reflects the company's future prospects.	distant_evaluation
Taken together, this research offers yet more support for the time-tested investment strategy of buy and hold.	cause_general
Anything that you think is news is old hat to the professionals.	distant_evaluation
Trying to outguess the market is a sucker's game.	distant_evaluation
ECONOMIC SCENE Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.	cause_general
Correction: May 10, 2007, Thursday The Economic Scene column in Business Day last Thursday, about research into the discrepancy between stock market returns and individual investors' returns, misstated the average yearly dollar-weighted return for a hypothetical investor who bought 100 shares of a company at $10 a share, then a year later bought 100 more shares when the share price was $20, then sold all 200 shares when the price fell to $10 a share at the end of that second year.	distant_evaluation
The investor's average yearly return was a negative 26.8 percent, not a negative 16.8 percent.	distant_evaluation
The discrepancy between stock market return and investor return is examined by Ilia D. Dichev, a University of Michigan accounting professor, in a paper published in the March 2007 edition of The American Economic Review, ''What Are Stock Investors' Actual Historical Returns?	main
Evidence From Dollar-Weighted Returns.''	main
To understand the difference between a stock's return and an investor's return, consider someone who buys 100 shares of a company at a price of $10 a share.	distant_evaluation
A year later, the share price is up to $20, and the investor buys 100 more shares.	distant_evaluation
Alas, the investor's luck has run out.	distant_evaluation
Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio broadcaster, said last night that its board had rejected a revised offer by two equity firms that had agreed to buy the company, but are now trying to keep the deal from falling through.	main
Stub equity was recently introduced to shareholders in the United States as a way to placate shareholders who had watched new owners of buyouts reap large profits by flipping the companies a few years later.	cause_general
Just last month, shareholders of Harman International Industries, the maker of JBL speakers and Harman Kardon home theater systems, accepted a stub equity deal from buyout firms that included Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Goldman Sachs.	cause_general
Interestingly, Goldman Sachs is the adviser to Clear Channel that recommended the board reject the most recent proposal that also used stub equity.	cause_general
Under the terms of the latest proposal, the buyout firms would have financed the 20 cent a share increase by having the Mays family, which founded Clear Channel, receive $37.60 a share, which was the price the company had originally accepted last November before the buyout firms raised their offer to $39 a share in a failed attempt to appease shareholders.	cause_general
The Mays recused themselves in the vote over the new offer, Clear Channel said.	cause_general
The shareholder vote is Tuesday.	cause_general
Some investors are now expecting the company to pursue a recapitalization, and some shareholders could mount a proxy fight.	distant_expectations_consequences
The new offer was a last ditch attempt to save the deal from being voted down by shareholders next week, but now means the buyout is almost certain to be rejected.	distant_expectations_consequences
Clear Channel said that the two firms -- Bain Capital Partners and Thomas H. Lee Partners -- had proposed increasing their bid from $39 a share to $39.20 and allowing shareholders to own a stake once the company goes private.	cause_specific
That would allow shareholders to participate in any profit from a sale or initial offering in several years.	cause_specific
The buyout firms had offered shareholders up to 30 percent of the company after it became private.	cause_specific
The proposal came just days after Institutional Shareholder Services, the influential proxy advisory firm, recommended that shareholders reject the $39 a share bid, effectively killing the deal.	cause_specific
Before making the latest proposal, Bain and Thomas H. Lee consulted Highfields Capital Management, one of Clear Channel's biggest shareholders that had planned to vote against the deal, according to people involved in the talks.	cause_general
Highfields had agreed to vote in favor of the deal, these people said.	distant_evaluation
But, Clear Channel said last night that in determining to reject the proposal, ''significant shareholders of the company have privately or publicly made known their opposition to the merger at $39 per share and their lack of interest in stub equity,'' referring to the stake that shareholders could have kept under the plan.	cause_specific
After another feverish day of buying in this country's amazing bull run, share prices in China broke records again Wednesday, sending the benchmark Shanghai composite index past the 4,000-point level for the first time.	main
The country's other major stock barometer, in Shenzhen, was even more depressed.	distant_historical
But for the last 18 months or so, Chinese stock prices have soared , luring a nation of savers who are now finding few better places to put their money to work than in stocks.	cause_general
Analysts say the market has also been buoyed by new regulations, rising corporate profits and a softening real estate market in 2006, which made stocks an attractive alternative.	distant_evaluation
These days, people wait in long lines outside banks and brokerage houses to open accounts, and they crowd into small rooms to spend the day watching stock monitors.	cause_general
They are retirees, college students taking out loans to invest in hot stocks, and homeowners who say they have sold apartments to buy shares of China Mobile or Sinopec.	cause_general
On the most fevered days, Chinese investors are opening hundreds of thousands of accounts, according to the state-run news media.	cause_general
Some publicly listed companies are said to be raising money from the market, only to plow it back into stocks in the hope of earning even better returns.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Green at Standard Chartered says price-to-earnings ratios, perhaps the best-known measure of the value of a stock, are extremely high in Shanghai.	distant_anecdotal
The government could take moderate steps to slow this growth.	distant_expectations_consequences
But officials worry about bursting a bubble and setting off waves of selling.	distant_evaluation
On a day when share prices also rallied in Hong Kong and in the southern city of Shenzhen, the Shanghai index closed at 4,013.09, up 1.6 percent.	main
''The risk of Beijing intervening between now and 5,000 is high,'' Mr. Green said.	distant_anecdotal
''The question is when.''	distant_anecdotal
Government officials have also sounded warnings about ''blind optimism'' in the market, overzealous buying and a resulting stock market bubble.	cause_general
They are also concerned about stock scams, deceptive mutual fund practices and insider trading.	cause_general
Perhaps the biggest test came on Feb. 27, when share prices plummeted nearly 9 percent in Shanghai, the biggest one-day drop in a decade, helping to spread a global stock sell-off.	distant_historical
But investors rushed back into the market, pushing the Shanghai composite index past 3,000 again in March, and now, slightly more than two months later, all the way up to 4,000.	cause_general
Share prices in Hong Kong have also been buoyed by huge initial public offerings of Chinese companies.	cause_general
The benchmark Hang Seng index there closed at 20,844.78 on Wednesday, just below its record high.	cause_general
Chang Chun, professor of finance at the China Europe International Business School, questions whether corporate profits, which may be high, are high enough to justify the current levels of stock prices.	distant_evaluation
''Earnings have gone up a lot in the last year,'' he says.	distant_evaluation
''Here we go,'' said Stephen Green, a longtime stock market analyst working here for Standard Chartered Bank.	distant_evaluation
''But this market is up a bit too high.''	distant_evaluation
''Next stop: 5,000.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Share prices have already risen 50 percent in Shanghai this year, after gains of 130 percent in 2006.	cause_general
And in just over four months, the Shenzhen composite index is up 100 percent this year.	cause_general
The striking advances are again raising concerns about the possibility of government intervention in a market that is wasting no time rewriting the record books.	distant_evaluation
But the authorities in Beijing are facing difficult choices: does it make sense to puncture a frenzied market at a time when investors are more eager than ever to invest in equities, or do nothing and allow the index to race up 1,000 points further?	cause_general
Just two years ago, this market was nearly asleep, with the Shanghai composite index hovering around 1,200.	distant_historical
IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers' markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market.	cause_general
If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce.	distant_expectations_consequences
There's a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall.	distant_expectations_consequences
Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter.	cause_general
The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same.	distant_expectations_consequences
Most farmers, of course, don't take plastic -- and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper.	distant_evaluation
The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious.	distant_evaluation
Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don't carry all the cash they end up eager to spend.	distant_expectations_consequences
But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them?	distant_evaluation
Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions.	distant_expectations_consequences
The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them.	distant_expectations_consequences
Some of the best customers of farmers' markets, though, haven't been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients.	distant_evaluation
That means supermarkets -- which remain the most convenient place to buy produce.	distant_expectations_consequences
Farmers' market advocates are alarmed.	distant_evaluation
The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say -- the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel.	distant_expectations_consequences
So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families?	distant_evaluation
The most equitable way to help farmer's markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers' Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects.	distant_evaluation
These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive.	distant_expectations_consequences
Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps.	distant_evaluation
Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don't know that the stamps can be used at farmers' markets.	cause_general
A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers' market program is the nutrition education that comes with it.	distant_evaluation
Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce.	distant_expectations_consequences
Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers' markets.	main
But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers' markets now get from food-assistance programs.	distant_expectations_consequences
And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that ''specialty crops'' -- the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies -- would finally get support from the farm bill.	distant_expectations_consequences
More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market.	distant_expectations_consequences
Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals.	distant_expectations_consequences
But farmers' markets are where the bill can best serve cooks -- a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one.	distant_evaluation
Op-Ed Contributor Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of ''The Pleasures of Slow Food.''	error
That normally would be great for small farmers.	distant_evaluation
Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill's $15 million Seniors Farmers' Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity -- ''food deserts.''	distant_expectations_consequences
But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables -- which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets -- could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven't.	main
Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce.	cause_general
And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor.	main
Hedge funds have been very good to institutions like Yale.	distant_evaluation
Under the tax code, profits from any activities financed with borrowed money, like much of the income from hedge fund and private equity investments, are taxable.	cause_general
But if the nonprofit invests in an offshore company, there is no tax.	cause_general
So hedge funds and private equity funds have set up offshore subsidiaries for nonprofits and other tax-exempt groups like pension funds to invest in.	cause_general
For instance, Farallon Capital Institutional Partners L.P. of San Francisco, a hedge fund in which Yale, the University of Michigan and other universities have invested, has a management company in the British Virgin Islands.	cause_general
The offshore company was created in large part to help nonprofits avoid taxes, Thomas F. Steyer, Farallon's senior managing partner, wrote investors in a letter in 2000.	distant_historical
A 2005 article in the newsletter Tax Notes said Duke University sought to keep 25 percent of its endowment, which now stands at $7.4 billion, invested in hedge funds.	distant_historical
At the time, about 75 percent of Duke's hedge fund investments were in offshore funds, according to the article, written by Maximilian H. Haag, a Duke law student who had interviewed the university's investment managers.	distant_historical
But universities do not generally disclose what portion of their endowment is invested in offshore hedge funds, and so it is impossible to estimate how much tax they are avoiding.	cause_general
And their officials are wary of discussing the issue.	cause_general
Spokesmen for 10 of the nation's wealthiest universities either did not respond to a reporter's messages or declined to make anyone from their investment management teams available.	cause_general
On its 2005 tax forms, the university reported annual income of $149 million from its hedge fund investments.	distant_historical
''As a matter of policy, we do not comment on our portfolio,'' Cass Ciatt, a spokeswoman for Princeton, wrote in an e-mail message.	cause_general
David Jarmul, a spokesman for Duke, emphasized the university's support for research, its financial aid programs and the other benefits its endowment provides.	cause_general
The university invests ''in various ways to maximize returns,'' Mr. Jarmul said by e-mail.	distant_evaluation
''Like other universities, Duke uses legitimate tax-advantaged structures, always in accordance with applicable law.''	distant_evaluation
With growing signs of displeasure from Congress, however, there are indications that some universities are reconsidering the use of offshore entities as a tax-avoidance method.	distant_evaluation
''This practice is legal and has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service in a number of rulings,'' said Patrick Dunkley, senior counsel at Stanford University, whose endowment stood at $14.1 billion in 2006.	distant_evaluation
''We are nonetheless currently reviewing the investment strategy.''	distant_evaluation
Congress made a pass at closing the loophole in 1993.	distant_historical
''I can tell you why I proposed it in one word: revenue,'' said former Representative Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat of Illinois, who was chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee from 1981 to 1994.	distant_evaluation
''That's the same thing driving them now.''	distant_evaluation
And much of that income, which would have been taxable if derived from domestic hedge funds, was tax free because it was generated by offshore affiliates of such funds.	distant_historical
Mr. Rostenkowski said that under ''pay as you go'' budget rules, which Congress adopted anew in January, ''you have to raise the revenue to feed this appetite we have for spending money.''	distant_evaluation
In some cases, hedge fund investors can realize returns as high as 40 percent or more.	distant_evaluation
So while closing the loophole could mean additional taxes for nonprofits, it would be unlikely to reduce their investments in hedge funds and private equity funds significantly, said Leon M. Metzger, a former hedge fund executive who teaches hedge fund management at New York University.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Because returns are so very attractive, unless Congress takes an extreme approach, I don't think this will have a major impact,'' Mr. Metzger said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In addition, two hedge fund partners who spoke only on condition of anonymity, for fear of alienating clients, said nonprofits could probably use other investment strategies to avoid taxes.	distant_anecdotal
Foundations also use the loophole, although the nation's largest, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, had no hedge fund investments at the end of last year.	cause_general
Richard Tofel, the Rockefeller Foundation's general counsel, said 21 percent of its $3.7 billion endowment was invested in hedge funds and 12 percent in private equity funds.	cause_general
Mr. Tofel said he did not know what portion of those investments were offshore, but Rockefeller expects to pay $7 million in income taxes for 2006.	distant_expectations_consequences
He also said Rockefeller would be unlikely to end all its offshore investments if the law changed.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Tax is part of what goes into the mix in making investment decisions,'' Mr. Tofel said, ''but on the other hand it's not the principal thing that drives investment decisions.	distant_evaluation
That strategy of tax avoidance is one that many of the nation's wealthiest universities, as well as foundations and pension funds, have been using with great success.	cause_specific
You make judgments about underlying asset values, risk and reward, and taxes come in somewhere after that.''	distant_evaluation
Now Congress is considering closing the loophole that allows it.	main
The goal is to raise money for the Treasury.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which has been looking into hedge fund practices, estimates that more than $100 billion in tax revenue a year is lost through the use of offshore tax havens and questionable tax shelters by investors of all types.	cause_specific
''A key concern is whether tax-exempt use of offshore corporations to invest in hedge funds is accelerating the shifting of U.S. assets offshore to avoid U.S. taxes,'' said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the subcommittee and who is among the sponsors of legislation that would close a number of such loopholes.	distant_evaluation
While nonprofit institutions are generally exempt from taxation, income produced by business activity that is deemed outside the scope of their mission may be subject to tax.	cause_general
Shareholders of AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, rejected at the annual meeting on Wednesday two proposals aimed at setting controls on executive pay.	main
Mr. Chevedden noted in the proposal that the mutual fund giants Fidelity and Vanguard, as well as guidelines from public pension funds, support this right.	cause_general
No person or investment group in AMR now meets this 10 percent threshold.	cause_general
The two-hour meeting was punctuated by wide-ranging comments from shareholders, investors and union representatives.	cause_general
Some spoke of bitterness and betrayal, while others commended management for stewarding the company back to profitability from the brink of bankruptcy.	distant_evaluation
Representatives of the Transport Workers Union presented the chairman and chief executive of AMR, Gerard J. Arpey, with an online petition bearing 17,000 signatures that protested AMR's executive compensation practices.	cause_general
AMR employees and unions have taken pay cuts and made other concessions worth $1.62 billion a year through 2008.	cause_general
Last month, the company's top executives received $21 million in bonuses, a figure that generated more than 500,000 e-mail messages in protest.	cause_specific
Union members feel betrayed by such bonuses, said a spokesman, Bobby Gless.	distant_evaluation
By contrast, Edward Shapiro, a partner at PAR Capital Management, lauded AMR's board for its performance during the difficult period since 2002.	distant_evaluation
Last month, AMR announced an $81 million first-quarter profit.	cause_general
The Allied Pilots Association had sponsored a resolution to give stockholders an advisory vote on executive compensation each year.	cause_specific
In 2006, the company earned $231 million.	distant_historical
In his remarks to the shareholders, Mr. Arpey noted that this was the first time in six years that AMR had been profitable for four consecutive quarters.	distant_evaluation
He said that the company had been ''scratching and clawing our way back up since 2002'' and had reached a point where it was no longer endeavoring to save itself.	distant_evaluation
He answered criticism of AMR's executive compensation by noting that the company had contributed more than $1.5 billion to its employees' defined-benefit pension plans since 2002, a period during which several rival airlines sought bankruptcy protection.	distant_evaluation
He commended the company's employees and unions for their cost-cutting efforts and for the ways they had helped increase revenue, including through aircraft maintenance contracts with other carriers.	distant_evaluation
Votes representing about 59 percent of AMR's shares went against the proposal.	main
A second resolution that was also defeated would have required that 75 percent of stock options or restricted stock awards given to executives be based on performance.	main
A third proposal, to change the way votes for directors are cast, was rejected.	main
The only stockholder-sponsored resolution to pass, with 54 percent in favor, concerned special shareholder meetings.	main
It was proposed by John Chevedden, an AMR stockholder who owns 100 shares.	cause_general
It establishes a process by which owners of 10 percent of the company's outstanding common shares can call a special shareholder meeting.	cause_general
It is similar to proposals recently passed by Electronic Data Systems, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.	distant_evaluation
CHICAGO (Reuters) - The white police officer who shot to death a black teen in 2014 fired 16 shots without justification, prosecutors told a Chicago jury on Monday, as the trial began in a decisive case for race relations and policing in the United States’ third-largest city.	main
The deaths of mostly unarmed black men at the hands of police officers across the United States in recent years have led to protests and sometimes violence in major U.S. cities.	cause_general
The killings helped give rise to the Black Lives Matter movement and became an issue in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.	distant_historical
Eight witnesses for the prosecution, including a dispatcher, a Federal Bureau of Investigation forensic examiner and Chicago police officers took the stand on Monday.	cause_general
Officer Joseph McElligott, who responded to the incident before the shooting, said McDonald swiped a knife at his squad car and kept walking, ignoring at least 30 orders to drop his weapon.	distant_evaluation
Asked by prosecutors why he did not shoot McDonald, McElligott, who had followed McDonald on foot with his gun drawn, said McDonald did not move directly toward him and he was trying to buy time for a Taser to arrive.	distant_evaluation
Prosecutors were expected to continue to call witnesses on Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Prosecutors showed jurors a soundless dashboard camera video that showed Van Dyke gunning down McDonald as he appeared to move away from officers.	cause_general
The video’s public release in 2015 spurred protests, fed a national debate over the use of excessive force by police against minorities and led to the ousting of local officials.	distant_historical
The video, released by the city more than a year after the shooting in response to a Freedom Of Information Act lawsuit, sparked days of protests in Chicago.	distant_historical
Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy, who has announced a mayoral run, was fired, and activists called for the resignation of Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Chicago police Officer Jason Van Dyke stands and walks toward the judge's bench at the start of the trial for the killing of Laquan McDonald at the Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., September 14, 2018.	error
Emanuel said on Sept. 4 he would not seek a third term after facing widespread criticism over his handling of the city’s gun violence.	cause_general
He did not specifically cite McDonald in his announcement.	cause_general
A U.S. Department of Justice investigation that began after the video’s release found Chicago police routinely violated people’s civil rights, citing excessive force and racially discriminatory conduct.	cause_general
Van Dyke, now 40, opted for a jury trial on Friday following the selection of a 12-person jury and five alternate jurors.	cause_general
He was suspended without pay after he was first charged in 2015.	cause_general
The 12-person jury includes one black person.	cause_general
Van Dyke’s attorneys on Monday morning asked Cook County Judge Vincent Gaughan to dismiss the jurors, saying “the negative and inflammatory rhetoric” surrounding the case had made it impossible for them to be impartial, but the judge rejected that argument.	distant_evaluation
Gaughan also denied a defense motion to move the trial out of Chicago.	cause_general
Van Dyke faces first-degree murder, aggravated battery and official misconduct charges.	cause_general
He is the first Chicago police officer to face a murder charge for an on-duty incident in decades.	cause_general
Antonio Perez/Pool/Chicago Tribune via REUTERS/File Photo	error
Three Chicago Police Department officers were indicted in June 2017 for conspiring to cover up McDonald’s shooting.	distant_historical
They have not yet been tried.	cause_general
“What he saw that night was a black boy with the audacity to ignore the police,” special prosecutor Joseph McMahon said during his opening statement of the officer, Jason Van Dyke.	main
“Not a single shot was necessary.”	main
Van Dyke’s defense lawyer, Daniel Herbert, portrayed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald as a dangerous drug user who caused the officer to fear for his safety.	cause_general
“McDonald was an out-of-control criminal running with a knife,” Herbert told jurors.	distant_evaluation
“What happened to Laquan McDonald is a tragedy.	distant_evaluation
It’s a tragedy, not a murder.”	distant_evaluation
THE HAGUE (Reuters) - Lebanese Prime Minister-designate Saad Hariri said on Tuesday he is not seeking revenge for the 2005 car bombing that killed his father, ex-premier Rafik Hariri, and that he would act to preserve stability in his country.	main
GUILTY AS CHARGED	cause_general
The prosecution presented a “mosaic of evidence...(that) leaves no reasonable doubt that all are guilty as charged,” Povoas said.	distant_evaluation
The trial lasted more than four years during which 307 witnesses were called.	cause_general
The defendants, who remain at large, face a maximum sentence of life in prison.	distant_expectations_consequences
In the absence of a smoking gun, prosecutors presented a complicated case based mostly on identifying five different, overlapping networks of disposable phones they said were used to carry out the bombing and attempt to manipulate media coverage afterwards by orchestrating a false claim of responsibility.	cause_general
On Tuesday, prosecutors also focused on the links between the four accused, Salim Jamil Ayyash, Hassan Habib Merhi, Assad Hassan Sabra and Hussein Hassan Oneissi, to Shi’ite Muslim Hezbollah.	cause_general
The four “shared a bond, in their common support for and links to Hezbollah”, he said.	distant_evaluation
Hezbollah denies any role in the killing of Hariri, a Sunni Muslim who had close ties with Iran’s regional adversary Saudi Arabia, and dismissed the tribunal as a tool of Israel and the United States.	distant_evaluation
The closing arguments will run until Sept. 21 with the defense expected to start on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
No date has been set for a verdict but it is expected next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Lebanese Prime Minister-designate Saad al-Hariri speaks to the media in front of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon ahead of the closings arguments in the trial of Lebanon's Rafik al-Hariri alleged killers in the Hague, the Netherlands September 11, 2018.	error
Bas Czerwinski/Pool via REUTERS	error
He spoke as prosecutors presented closing arguments in the case before a U.N.-backed tribunal against four suspects accused of carrying out the attack that killed Hariri and 21 others.	cause_specific
“We have always wanted justice and have not resorted to revenge,” Hariri, who attended the court session in The Hague, told journalists.	distant_evaluation
He added that dealing with the assassination of his father in court was difficult as a son but he had to put his feelings aside.	distant_evaluation
“There are things that hurt, but when in a position of responsibility, we have to look at the country’s interest.”	distant_evaluation
Four alleged members of Lebanon’s Iran-backed Hezbollah movement have been tried in absentia on charges of planning and executing the bombing in Beirut, which rocked the religiously divided country.	cause_general
Wrapping up the prosecution case, Nigel Povoas said that Lebanon had been “plunged into darkness and horror” by the murder of Hariri.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - A Texas grand jury could potentially charge a Dallas police officer with murder in the shooting death of a neighbor whose apartment the officer said she mistook for her own, a prosecutor said on Monday, as the victim’s family demanded more answers.	main
Entering the darkened apartment, she noticed a figure whom she said she mistook for a burglar and fired twice, striking Jean once in the chest, the affidavit said.	cause_specific
Attorneys for Jean’s family challenged that account.	cause_general
Officer Amber Guyger appears in a booking photo provided by the Kaufman County Sheriff's Office, September 10, 2018.	error
Kaufman County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
“This wasn’t her apartment, so there wouldn’t be the same smell, there wouldn’t be the same furniture, there wouldn’t be the same lighting pattern,” S. Lee Merritt, an attorney for Jean’s family, said at a news conference on Monday.	distant_evaluation
Two witnesses who live at the apartment building have described hearing knocks at a door before the shooting, and one of the witnesses heard a woman’s voice saying, “Let me in,” Merritt said.	distant_evaluation
The results of a blood test on Guyger for drugs and alcohol were still pending, a police spokesman said.	cause_general
Meanwhile, according to the Dallas Morning News, dozens of people marched through the city’s downtown on Monday evening, blocking traffic at times, to protest last Thursday’s fatal shooting of Botham Shem Jean, 26, an unarmed black man, by the white officer.	cause_general
Amber Guyger, 30, a four-year veteran of the Dallas police force, was arrested on Sunday and charged with manslaughter, a lesser offense than murder for an unlawful killing that does not involve malice aforethought.	cause_specific
Police said Guyger has told investigators she mistook Jean’s residence for her own and shot him believing he was an intruder.	distant_evaluation
Questions have been raised over why there was a delay in charging Guyger and how she failed to know she was not in her own apartment.	cause_general
An attorney for Guyger, who was released on $300,000 bond, could not be reached for comment.	cause_general
District Attorney Faith Johnson told reporters on Monday, “We plan to present a thorough case to the grand jury of Dallas County so that the right decision can be made in this case.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The grand jury may decide to uphold the manslaughter charge on which she was arrested, or it could consider charging Guyger with murder, Johnson said.	main
Guyger, who came home from her shift on Thursday in uniform, mistakenly went to Jean’s apartment one floor above her own and managed to enter because the door was slightly ajar, according to an arrest warrant affidavit posted online by local media.	cause_specific
KOETHEN, Germany (Reuters) - A 22-year-old German man died overnight in the eastern town of Koethen and two Afghans have been detained on suspicion of killing him, the police and the public prosecutor’s office said on Sunday.	main
Germany is deeply divided over Chancellor Angela Merkel’s 2015 decision to allow in over a million migrants, many of them refugees from wars in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.	distant_evaluation
A row over the veracity of reports that supporters of the far right hounded migrants in Chemnitz has inflamed tensions over immigration in Merkel’s ‘grand coalition’ only two months after she reached a truce with her Bavarian sister party on the same issue.	cause_general
Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, of the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU), on Wednesday said: “Migration is the mother of all problems.”	distant_evaluation
The police and the public prosecutor’s office said in a short statement: “Two Afghans were provisionally detained on suspicion of homicide ...	main
The reasons for, and concrete circumstances of, the incident are not yet known.”	main
News of the death followed the killing of another German man in the city of Chemnitz, southeast of Koethen, for which two asylum seekers - a Syrian and an Iraqi - were arrested.	cause_general
The most violent right-wing protests in decades followed the Aug. 26 killing in Chemnitz.	cause_general
At dusk in Koethen, both far-right and left-wing protesters began assembling to demonstrate.	main_consequence
The state premier of Saxony-Anhalt, home to Koethen, said protests there must not turn out like those in Chemnitz.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Despite all the emotional, every attempt to turn Koethen, as is being said on the internet, into a second Chemnitz, must be rejected,” the Mitteldeutsche Zeitung newspaper quoted state premier Reiner Haseloff as saying.	distant_expectations_consequences
In its online edition, the paper identified the man who died in Koethen as Markus B. and said he died of acute heart failure.	cause_specific
(Reuters) - Texas police on Saturday arrested a veteran U.S. Border Patrol agent, who is suspected of killing four women within the past two weeks and kidnapping a fifth.	main
A senior U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) official, Andrew Meehan, said in a statement the agency was cooperating fully with the investigators.	distant_evaluation
While it was not agency policy to comment on the details of an ongoing investigation, Meehan said, criminal conduct by CBP employees is not, and will not be, tolerated.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Our sincerest condolences go out to the victims’ family and friends,” Meehan added.	distant_evaluation
Juan David Ortiz, a 35-year-old who has worked for the Border Patrol for a decade, was found hiding in a Laredo parking lot after a woman he allegedly abducted was able to escape and alert law enforcement, officials said.	cause_specific
“We feel that our efforts have gathered strong evidence against this killer.	distant_evaluation
Our community is safe from this killer,” Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Ortiz was charged late on Saturday with four counts of murder, aggravated assault and unlawful restraint, Webb County, Texas District Attorney Isidro Alaniz said in a tweet.	cause_general
It was unclear if Ortiz had an attorney or if bond was set.	cause_general
The four victims’ names were not immediately disclosed.	cause_general
Local media in Laredo, 150 miles (240 km) southwest of San Antonio, said they had been working as prostitutes.	cause_general
The bodies of two of the women were discovered this month along Interstate 35 in rural northwest Webb County, the Laredo Morning Times reported, while the third and fourth were found in the same area this weekend.	cause_general
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Former rap mogul Marion “Suge” Knight was sentenced in a Los Angeles courtroom on Thursday to 28 years in prison for manslaughter in the death of a man he ran over with his pickup truck outside a hamburger stand in 2015.	main
As part of his agreement with prosecutors to plead no contest - the legal equivalent of guilty - to the lesser offence of manslaughter, all other charges in the case were dropped.	cause_general
Two separate criminal cases in which he was charged with robbery and making criminal threats were also dismissed.	cause_general
Judge Ronald Coen said Knight had earned the equivalent of 4.2 years credit for time served in pretrial detention.	cause_general
He also is eligible to shave another 15 percent, or 4.2 years, off his term for good behaviour while in prison, meaning he could end up serving nearly 20 years before release.	distant_expectations_consequences
Seated beside his lawyer and wearing an orange jail uniform and horned-rimmed glasses, the burly, bald ex-college football player showed no visible emotion as sentence was pronounced.	cause_general
He did not address the court.	cause_general
Knight previously served more than half of a nine-year term for violating the probation he received in 1995 for an assault on two aspiring rappers at a Hollywood recording studio.	distant_historical
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
The probation violation stemmed from a scuffle involving Knight at a Las Vegas hotel in September 1996, hours before Shakur was shot to death while riding in a car with Knight on the Las Vegas Strip.	distant_historical
Knight was slightly wounded in the attack.	distant_historical
The sentence appeared to forestall any chance of a future recording business comeback for Knight, 53, known as much for repeated run-ins with the law as for his career as a hip-hop executive promoting the likes of Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre and Tupac Shakur during the 1990s.	distant_expectations_consequences
Knight was later named by police as a suspect in the shooting death of rival rap artist Christopher Wallace, known as Notorious B.I.G., but was never charged.	distant_historical
Both rap murders remain unsolved.	distant_historical
In 2002, the year after his release from prison, a federal racketeering probe of Knight and his record label was closed with the company pleading guilty to misdemeanour tax charges.	distant_historical
The onetime college football star and “gangsta” rap pioneer eventually lost control of his label in bankruptcy proceedings.	distant_historical
The co-founder of the influential label Death Row Records pleaded no contest on Sept. 20 to one count of voluntary manslaughter for the hit-and-run killing of 55-year-old Terry Carter.	cause_specific
He admitted then to using a “deadly and dangerous weapon” on Jan. 29, 2015, when he ran down two men with his pickup truck in an altercation outside Tam’s Burgers that spilled over from a quarrel on the nearby set of a TV commercial for the film “Straight Outta Compton.”	cause_specific
Carter later died of his injuries.	cause_specific
The second man, Cle “Bone” Sloan, was left with a badly mangled left foot and head injuries.	cause_specific
Knight, who was out on bail in a robbery case at the time, fled the scene but was later arrested.	cause_specific
Knight had previously contended that he accidentally struck the two men with his vehicle while trying to flee what he thought was an ambush attempt.	distant_evaluation
Had Knight been convicted of murder and attempted murder as originally charged, he faced a life sentence with no eligibility for parole for 25 years.	distant_expectations_consequences
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Gunmen with rifles and pistols killed three people on Friday and injured at least seven in a tourist plaza in downtown Mexico City, police said, adding that they were chasing three men dressed as mariachi musicians who fled on motorbikes.	main
“Nothing like this has ever happened before,” said Samuel, a man who added that he had worked for thirty years around the square in one of the world’s biggest, most populous cities, but declined to give his last name.	distant_anecdotal
Videos on social media and television showed a heavy police presence, with the attack site cordoned off and yellow markers where the bullet casings fell, but dozens of people continued to drink and listen to live music nearby.	main_consequence
Police blame much of the capital’s crime on retail drug dealing and protection rackets run by violent gangs, though the government says at least one of these has links to a major national trafficking group, the Jalisco New Generation Cartel.	distant_evaluation
Plaza Garibaldi borders one of Mexico City’s most notorious neighborhoods, Tepito, home to La Union gang police say is behind a spurt in drug-dealing and protection rackets.	cause_general
Slideshow (5 Images)	error
In August, police arrested the presumed leader of the gang, Roberto Moyado Esparza “El Betito”.	cause_general
Since then, the Tepito neighborhood has suffered a wave of violence, including several killings.	cause_general
Garibaldi, on the edge of the touristy, colonial historic center of Mexico City, is known for seedy strip clubs and dive bars, aside from mariachis.	distant_evaluation
In 2013, U.S. civil rights leader Malcolm X’s grandson, Malcolm Shabazz, was beaten to death near the square after a dispute over a nightclub bill.	distant_historical
After years of keeping a lid on the worst violent crime that has plagued Mexico, its capital has seen homicides surge since 2014 to record levels, presenting a major challenge to an incoming city government that has vowed a clean-up.	cause_general
In a statement, police said the three victims were killed at an intersection on the edge of Plaza Garibaldi, a major tourist destination packed with mariachi bars, just as the capital was kicking off independence day weekend celebrations.	cause_general
The victims had been at a restaurant when the shooting started around 10 p.m., media said, adding that forensic officials had counted more than 60 bullet cases at the scene.	cause_general
“People were screaming and running,” said a disabled woman who sells cigarettes in Garibaldi, shortly after having heard what she thought were fireworks.	distant_anecdotal
She declined to be identified.	distant_anecdotal
The identity of the three dead was not immediately clear, but the Milenio newspaper said they were men.	distant_evaluation
Another newspaper said two of the injured were women.	distant_evaluation
Four of the injured were hurt as the gunmen fled, Mexico City police chief Raymundo Collins told reporters.	cause_general
(Reuters) - A divided Connecticut Supreme Court on Friday threw out the 2002 murder conviction of Michael Skakel, a member of the Kennedy family, and ordered a new trial.	main
In 2016, the Connecticut Supreme Court rejected Bishop’s conclusion and reinstated Skakel’s conviction, prompting Santos to ask the court to reconsider its decision.	distant_historical
Since the 2016 ruling, one justice in the majority retired and was replaced by another justice, who voted in favor of ordering a new trial, thus flipping the court’s decision.	cause_specific
In a dissenting opinion, Justice Carmen Espinosa said Skakel’s decision to file a motion for reconsideration after a justice’s retirement amounted to “judge shopping.”	distant_evaluation
A spokesman for the Connecticut chief state’s attorney’s office, which argued against Skakel’s appeal in court, said the office was reviewing the decision.	distant_evaluation
The case drew enormous media attention, both because of the connection to the Kennedys and because the murder took place in Greenwich, one of New York City’s toniest suburbs.	cause_general
Moxley was found bludgeoned to death with a golf club, later traced to a set owned by Skakel’s mother, when she and Skakel were both 15 years old.	distant_historical
The case was unsolved for more than 20 years.	cause_general
In 1998, former Los Angeles police detective Mark Fuhrman, known for his role in the O.J.	distant_historical
Simpson murder case, wrote a book implicating Skakel.	distant_historical
A grand jury was convened that year, and Skakel was charged in 2000.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Michael Skakel reacts to being granted bail during his hearing at Stamford Superior Court, in Stamford, Connecticut November 21, 2013.	error
REUTERS/Bob Luckey/Pool	error
The 4-3 decision upheld a lower court judge’s 2013 ruling that Skakel’s lawyer did not provide an adequate defense, necessitating a new trial on charges that he killed his neighbor Martha Moxley at her Greenwich home in 1975.	main
Justice Richard Palmer, writing for the majority, said the trial lawyer had failed to present the jury with testimony from a witness who could have provided an alibi for Skakel.	cause_specific
Palmer said the prosecutors’ case was “far from strong,” and the outcome might have been different with the alibi testimony.	distant_expectations_consequences
“This has been a long road for Michael, and we are grateful to the court for its ruling today,” said Hubert Santos, Skakel’s lawyer in the appeal.	distant_evaluation
Skakel, a cousin of Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and nephew of Ethel Kennedy, the widow of U.S.	distant_historical
Senator Robert F. Kennedy, was sentenced to 20 years in prison before he was freed on bail when state Superior Court Judge Thomas Bishop ruled that his attorney had failed to provide an effective trial defense.	distant_historical
(Reuters) - The man suspected of murdering a prominent Houston doctor, who once treated former U.S. President George H.W.	main
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said in a statement that Pappas’s death closed a chapter in a horrific tragedy.	distant_evaluation
“And once again it involved heroic acts by frontline officers of the Houston Police Department, which has my gratitude for how it has handled this case and so many others,” Turner said, also thanking the public for its help.	distant_evaluation
Bush, fatally shot himself in the head after being confronted by two police officers, authorities said on Friday.	main
Police were searching for Joseph Pappas, who they say shot and killed cardiologist Mark Hausknecht on July 20 as the doctor rode his bicycle to work in Houston’s sprawling Medical Center complex.	cause_specific
The gunman, who was also on a bicycle, fled the scene.	cause_specific
Authorities received a tip on Friday morning from a member of the public who spotted Pappas near a Jewish Community Center in the city.	cause_specific
When an officer approached Pappas, he saw the suspect was wearing a bulletproof vest, police chief, Art Acevedo, said at a news briefing.	cause_general
A backup police officer arrived, Acevedo said, at which point Pappas shot himself in the head.	main
Houston police have said Pappas had held a two-decade grudge against Hausknecht after his mother died during a surgery performed by the doctor.	distant_evaluation
“I’m thankful we’re going to end this week with a great sense of relief in the city of Houston and the Texas Medical Center,” Acevedo said.	distant_evaluation
Twenty-year-old Iraqi Ali B. is escorted by special police upon his arrival in Wiesbaden, Germany, June 9, 2018, after his arrest by police in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, admitting to the rape and murder of Susanna F., a 14-year-old German girl.	error
His asylum request was rejected in December 2016.	distant_historical
Merkel’s decision to welcome more than 1 million refugees in 2015 boosted support for the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany party.	distant_historical
The government has put aside more than 20 billion euros ($23.5 billion) to integrate asylum seekers and tackle the root causes of migration.	cause_general
Merkel last month coolly rebuffed U.S. President Donald Trump’s assertion made in a tweet that migrants were behind a surge in crime in Germany, pointing to statistics that showed crime was down.	cause_general
REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski/File Photo	error
BERLIN (Reuters) - An Iraqi man suspected of the rape and killing of a 14-year-old German girl is also under investigation for raping an 11-year-old German girl in a refugee shelter in the town of Wiesbaden, prosecutors said on Tuesday.	main
The 20-year-old identified as Ali Bashar is suspected of raping the girl in March and sexually assaulting her again in May with a 14-year-old Afghan, the public prosecutor’s office in Wiesbaden said.	main
Police arrested the Afghan suspect who originally was known to German authorities as a witness in the murder case of the 14-year-old, Susanna Feldman, the office said.	cause_general
An outcry over the rape and murder case led Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives to call for stricter immigration rules and faster deportation of failed asylum seekers.	cause_general
Iraqi authorities extradited Bashar to Germany on June 9 after Kurdish security forces took him into custody.	cause_specific
He had left Germany with relatives early last month.The Iraqi suspect, who arrived in Germany at the height of Europe’s migrant crisis in 2015, was known to police because he had become violent with officials over his asylum status.	cause_general
Bashar had previously been suspected in the rape of the 11-year-old girl at the refugee center, although an initial investigation was inconclusive.	cause_general
AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Texas executed an inmate on Wednesday dubbed the “Lovers’ Lane” killer who was convicted of a 2003 ambush in which he tried to rob a man in a parked car on a remote road in San Antonio and then fatally shot him.	main
He was convicted of killing aspiring rapper Tommy Garcia, then 19.	distant_historical
Prosecutors said Garcia was set up by his then girlfriend, who lured him to the remote spot with the promise of sex and drugs but plotted to have him robbed by Castillo and two others.	distant_historical
After Garcia parked, Castillo, brandishing a pistol, smashed a car window, opened a door and demanded Garcia give him his money and jewelry.	distant_historical
When Garcia refused and tried to run away, Castillo shot him seven times, prosecutors said.	distant_historical
Of the four people in the plot, only Castillo was sentenced to death and his lawyers have said there was no physical evidence that linked him to the crime.	distant_historical
They also said he was convicted because of tainted testimony that included a jailhouse informant who told a Texas court Castillo confessed to him that he was the triggerman.	distant_evaluation
The informant later recanted and said he lied to help himself, court documents showed.	distant_historical
Prosecutors said sources pointed law enforcement to the suspects and that Castillo’s co-defendants told authorities he was the person who shot Garcia.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Texas deathrow inmate Juan Castillo is pictured in this police handout photo obtained by Reuters August 29, 2017.	error
Texas Department of Criminal Justice/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo	error
Juan Castillo, 37, was put to death by lethal injection at the state’s death chamber in Huntsville, a prisons official said.	main
It was the 11th execution this year in the United States and the sixth in Texas, which has executed more inmates than any other state since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976.	cause_general
“To everyone that has been there for me you know who you are, love y’all.	distant_evaluation
See y’all on the other side.	distant_evaluation
That’s it,” he was quoted as saying in his final statement by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.	distant_evaluation
Castillo had maintained his innocence, saying he was not at the scene.	distant_historical
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia will reopen an investigation into the murder of a Mongolian model in 2006, media reported on Thursday quoting the country’s police chief, in a case that could spell more trouble for former premier Najib Razak.	main
One of the officers found guilty of her murder, Sirul Azhar Uma, fled to Australia shortly before his sentence was handed down.	distant_historical
Sirul said last month he would cooperate with any new investigation into the murder if he was given a full pardon.	distant_expectations_consequences
Malaysia is considering revoking his death sentence to facilitate his extradition.	distant_evaluation
Asked for comment on the new developments on Thursday, a spokesman for Australia’s Attorney-General said it does not comment on extradition requests.	distant_evaluation
Asked about the Altantuya case in an interview with Reuters this week, Najib said: “I’m on record to have sworn in a mosque in the name of Allah that I had nothing to do with the case.	distant_evaluation
“I still maintain that I only knew she died 4-5 days after the death...that was the first time I heard about her.	distant_evaluation
There is no evidence to show I ever knew her.”	distant_evaluation
Mahathir is seeking to lay multiple charges against Najib for his alleged role in looting billions from state-run fund 1MDB and blames him for widespread corruption in the previous government.	cause_general
Najib has consistently denied any wrongdoing.	cause_general
Two former police officers, who were serving as members of Najib’s personal security detail at the time of the murder, were sentenced to death for the crime.	distant_historical
Najib, who was defeated in an election last month after nearly a decade in power, has denied knowing the woman, but the question of who ordered the killing has never been answered.	cause_general
“I can confirm we are reopening investigations,” Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Mohamad Fuzi Harun said, adding that a new police report submitted by the model’s father on Wednesday was one reason for the fresh probe into the murder case.	cause_general
Altantuya Shaariibuu, 28, was killed and blown up with military grade explosives in a forest near Kuala Lumpur.	distant_historical
Her father Setev Shaariibuu on Wednesday met with Malaysia’s new attorney-general Tommy Thomas and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who defeated the scandal-tainted Najib in a stunning election upset last month.	cause_general
Civil society groups have alleged Altantuya’s murder was linked to her role as an interpreter for Abdul Razak Baginda, a former associate of Najib, in Malaysia’s purchase of two Scorpene-class submarines from French shipbuilding giant DCNS in 2002.	distant_evaluation
Abdul Razak, who said he had had an affair with Altantuya, was charged with abetment in her murder.	distant_historical
He was acquitted in 2008.	distant_historical
(Reuters) - A retired police officer, who investigators believe is the “Golden State Killer,” was charged on Thursday with four more counts of murder in Santa Barbara, California.	main
He has not yet entered a plea to any of the charges against him.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, who authorities said was identified by DNA evidence as the serial predator dubbed the Golden State Killer, appears at his arraignment in California Superior court in Sacramento, California, U.S., April 27, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Fred Greaves/File Photo	error
Investigators finally cracked the Sacramento case, which has long haunted victims’ families and law enforcement, by comparing crime scene DNA to genetic information on commercial genealogy websites that consumers use to explore their ancestry.	cause_specific
Detectives followed the family trees of close matches, seeking people who might be the killer.	cause_general
The process produced a promising lead a week ago, when the DNA of a relative pointed to DeAngelo based on his age and the fact that he lived near where the attacks occurred.	cause_specific
DeAngelo was identified as a suspect about two months after the case gained renewed attention in the book, “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” by journalist Michelle McNamara, who died in 2016 and was married to the actor Patton Oswalt.	distant_historical
Joseph DeAngelo, 72, who was once a police officer in the California towns of Exeter and Auburn, was charged last month in Sacramento with eight murders during a crime spree in the 1970s and ‘80s.	cause_specific
Over the past 16 days since the Sacramento charges were filed, the Santa Barbara county district attorney’s office has been working with the county sheriff’s office, gathering evidence and conducting interviews, said Santa Barbara County District Attorney Joyce Dudley.	cause_general
“As a result of this process, I have decided to file four counts of first degree murder with special circumstances against Joseph James DeAngelo,” she told a news conference.	main
Diane Howard, from the Sacramento County Public Defender’s Office and who is DeAngelo’s attorney on the Sacramento charges, was not immediately available for comment.	cause_general
Each of the four counts carries multiple allegations and each count carries the potential for a sentence of life without possibility of parole or the death sentence, she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
DeAngelo, who has two adult children, was arrested on April 24 at his home in a Sacramento suburb.	cause_general
He is suspected in a dozen killings as well as 45 rapes and more than 120 burglaries in 10 California counties in a decade-long crime spree considered one of the worst in the state’s history.	cause_specific
He is scheduled to appear in court in Sacramento on Monday.	cause_general
MUNICH (Reuters) - A suspected neo-Nazi gang member on trial for involvement in the murders of 10 people apologized to the families of the victims in a German court on Tuesday, even though she denies taking part in the killings.	main
Zschaepe has denied taking part in the murders with two men, Uwe Boehnhardt and Uwe Mundlos.	cause_general
They killed themselves in 2011 when police discovered the gang by chance.	distant_historical
But she has, through her lawyer, said she felt morally guilty for not stopping them.	distant_evaluation
In her previous testimony in 2015, she denied being a member of the NSU and described feeling horrified and bewildered when Boehnhardt and Mundlos told her about some of the murders.	distant_historical
She considered informing the police at one point, she said at the time, but the men threatened to commit suicide and she was financially dependent on them.	distant_historical
On Tuesday she said that she did not know how the victims were chosen and that she had denied reality to some extent for a long time.	distant_evaluation
Only once she had turned herself in did she realize the full extent of the crimes, she said.	distant_evaluation
She said she no longer followed right-wing ideology, saying of her neo-Nazi beliefs that “this chapter is closed”.	distant_evaluation
Addressing the judges, she said: “Please do not judge me for something that I neither wanted nor committed.”	distant_evaluation
The prosecution has demanded a sentence of life in prison.	cause_general
Defendant Beate Zschaepe waits for the continuation of her NSU trial at a courtroom in Munich, southern Germany, on July 3, 2018.	error
Zschaepe’s lawyers have urged the court to convict her of the lesser charges of arson and robbery.	cause_general
“I only want one thing now, to find closure so that I can eventually lead a life free of fear,” Zschaepe told the court.	distant_evaluation
The NSU attacks were the most violent by a guerrilla group in Germany since the end of the far-left Red Army Faction’s two-decade spree in 1991, in which 34 people are estimated to have been killed.	distant_historical
Christof Stache/Pool via Reuters	error
Prosecutors say Beate Zschaepe was part of the National Socialist Underground (NSU), whose members killed eight Turks, a Greek and a German policewoman over seven years from 2000.	distant_historical
Judges will give a verdict on July 11, the court said on Tuesday, ending a trial that has taken more than five years to complete.	cause_general
“I am a compassionate person and was able to see and feel the distress and despair of the families,” Zschaepe, 43, said in her closing statement at the regional court in Munich.	distant_evaluation
“I apologize for the suffering I have caused,” she added.	distant_evaluation
This was only the second time that Zschaepe has spoken in court after more than 400 days of trial hearings.	cause_general
She said she had lacked the physical and mental strength to testify and feared her words would be misinterpreted or twisted.	distant_evaluation
DAKAR (Reuters) - Three Congo Republic peacekeepers were given sentences of just three years in jail for murdering civilians and are now already free, Human Rights Watch said on Tuesday, describing the sentences as inadequate and unlikely to discourage future abuse.	distant_expectations_consequences
Congo’s government spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.	cause_general
The government of President Denis Sassou Nguesso, one of Africa’s most secretive with a history of repression at home, has previously rejected claims that it has ignored allegations of human rights abuses against its soldiers.	distant_evaluation
Failure to hold peacekeepers accountable for crimes committed on foreign soil is a recurring complaint of rights activists.	distant_evaluation
The responsibility to prosecute falls on troop-contributing countries who are often unwilling or unable to press charges against their troops.	distant_evaluation
According to HRW, the Congolese peacekeepers killed an unarmed boy and arrested at least 12 other civilians in the Central African town of Boali in March 2014 after a peacekeeper was killed in a firefight with a local militia leader.	distant_historical
The bodies of the 12 people were found nearby in a mass grave in February 2016.	distant_historical
The remains of a 7-month-old baby who was also killed were never found, HRW said.	distant_historical
The Congolese court judgment referred only to 11 of the victims.	distant_historical
Congo Republic’s hundreds of peacekeepers in Central African Republic later became part of a U.N. mission.	distant_historical
They were repatriated last year following multiple allegations of sexual abuse and exploitation.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: An African Union (AU) peacekeeping soldier holds a confiscated sword during a dispute between members of the local Christian community and ex-Seleka soldiers in Bangui January 22, 2014.	error
REUTERS/Siegfried Modola/File Photo	error
A court in the Congolese capital Brazzaville sentenced each of the soldiers in April for the killings of 11 civilians committed in 2014 while the soldiers were serving in an African Union peacekeeping mission in Central African Republic.	distant_historical
HRW said it secured a copy of the written judgment only last month.	cause_general
The three men are now free, having already served most of their sentences, HRW said in a statement.	main
Although the court found the soldiers guilty of war crimes which can carry the death penalty under Congolese law, its judgment cited unspecified extenuating circumstances.	distant_historical
“The authorities in the Republic of Congo missed an opportunity to provide justice for the murders of civilians and to show that no peacekeeper is above the law,” said Lewis Mudge, a senior researcher at HRW.	distant_evaluation
“Giving the soldiers who committed murder little more than a slap on the wrist sent a damaging message to other peacekeepers that they risk little if they commit such crimes.”	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - A Florida grand jury formally indicted Nikolas Cruz on Wednesday on 17 counts of premeditated murder in the first degree and 17 counts of attempted murder in the first degree for last month’s shooting spree at a high school in Parkland, prosecutors said.	main
No date was set for an arraignment, at which Cruz will be allowed to enter a plea, said Constance Simmons, a spokeswoman for the Broward County state attorney’s office.	cause_general
The 19-year-old former student is accused of using a semiautomatic assault rifle to kill 17 students and faculty members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland on Feb. 14.	cause_specific
He faces a maximum sentence of either execution or life in prison without parole if convicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
The public defender’s office in Broward County has said Cruz was willing to plead guilty if county prosecutors choose not to pursue the death penalty.	distant_evaluation
The prosecutors’ office has said a decision on this has not yet been made, according to Simmons.	cause_general
The attack, one of the deadliest at a school in a country where school shootings happen multiple times a year, has reignited a national debate about overhauling gun laws in Florida and beyond.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Los Angeles police named a 28-year-old man on Sunday as the suspect who took hostages and barricaded himself for three hours inside a Trader Joe’s grocery store in which he fatally shot a woman.	main
“Our thoughts are with her family, and our Crew Members and customers who experienced this terrifying and unimaginable ordeal,” the statement said.	distant_evaluation
Atkin’s grandmother was left in critical condition in the earlier attack on Saturday, police said.	cause_general
There was no update on her condition on Sunday, they said.	cause_general
Gene Atkins is being held on a $2-million bail on suspicion of murder for Saturday’s attacks, said Los Angeles Police Department spokesman Drake Madison.	main
Atkins is likely to appear in court to be formally charged early this coming week, Madison added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Atkins is suspected of repeatedly having shot his grandmother and another woman in a separate part of the city before being chased by police and crashing his car outside the Trader Joe’s, according to the police account.	cause_general
He exchanged gunfire with police and entered the crowded store, police said.	cause_specific
Some people managed to escape the store by climbing through a window down a rope ladder, according to video footage.	cause_general
The stand-off came to an end after the gunman, who at one point was shot in the arm, talked with police over the phone to negotiate a surrender before emerging.	cause_specific
The woman killed at the store was identified as Melyda Corado by relatives, who said she worked there as a manager.	cause_general
Trader Joe’s called the attack the “saddest day in Trader Joe’s history” in a statement on its website, saying the store would remain closed indefinitely.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-01-16 03:48:27|Editor: yan	error
"""The recent attack was in an area that is likely to compromise some organizations, because it is an area where Anadarko, an American petroleum company has built resettlement houses due to the field of oil exploration they are working on,"" said Tayobo."	distant_evaluation
She added that at first the mob only killed police officers, but now they attack civilians and rape women or kidnap them, and posted movement flags in communities where they attacked.	cause_general
"""They use various weapons, sticks, machetes and guns, and they do horrible things, they are violent, we cannot hide it or get around of this,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
The source also revealed that in the same violent incursion on Saturday night, the terrorists entered the house of the head of the post office, but luckily no one was at home.	cause_general
"""It seems they have a tendency to move out from the areas where the police took control, so the attacks are now unpredictable, it can happen at any place,"" said the same source."	distant_evaluation
On October 5 in 2017, a group of about 30 armed fundamentalists launched simultaneous attacks against three police stations in Mocimboa da Praia, which later was classified by the police as terrorism.	distant_historical
The Police of the Republic of Mozambique has not yet announced on what happened in the Saturday attack, but information indicates that they have been looking into the situation.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
MAPUTO, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- Terrorists who attacked the Mocimboa da Praia district in the northern Mozambican province of Cabo Delgado have extended their reach of mob activities to the district of Palma, killing seven people and burning houses.	main
In an interview with Xinhua, Angelina Tayobo of the Environmental Association of Cabo Delgado (AMA), a local non-governmental organization based in that province, said the attack began from Saturday night to Sunday dawn.	main
"""They attacked a community from the administrative post of Ulumbe, Palma district and killed seven people and burned down houses,"" she said."	main
Angelina Tayobo said since last October her organization has been moving from one community to another due to the attacks which first had happened in Mocimboa da Praia and now were extending.	cause_general
"""At the moment we were working in Lalane, Palma district."	cause_general
"But now we have to leave again,"" she said."	distant_expectations_consequences
According to her, AMA was not the only organization that has been affected by the terrorist attacks.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-23 20:21:53|Editor: xuxin	error
Preliminary investigations showed that the state-owned ferry was overloaded with more than 200 passengers and was being manned by someone who was not the authorized captain of the vessel.	cause_general
Isack Kamwelwe, the Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, said 225 bodies were recovered from the fateful ferry between Thursday and Sunday morning.	cause_general
"""We are still searching for more bodies before we halt the recovery operation later today,"" said Kamwelwe, adding that the recovery operation will be halted after the ferry was pulled out of the waters from one of Africa's great lakes."	cause_general
A team of experts from the Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) and the police force arrived at Ukara Islet, the scene of the accident, on Saturday night to pull out the ferry using state-of-the-art equipment from TPDF, said Kamwelwe.	cause_general
One survivor was rescued on Saturday morning from the ferry that capsized in Lake Victoria on Thursday afternoon.	cause_general
Kamwelwe identified the survivor as Alphonce Charahani, a ferry engineer who was among the passengers, saying he was in critical condition and doctors are fighting to save his life.	cause_general
The last major ferry accident on Lake Victoria occurred in 1996 in the same region, killing at least 500 people.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
DAR ES SALAAM, Sept. 23 (Xinhua) -- Tanzanian Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said on Sunday police have arrested a number of people who were in relation to a ferry disaster killing over 220 people in Lake Victoria.	main
"""Police have arrested a number of people for questioning following the grisly marine accident as investigations continue,"" said Majaliwa at the national burial of nine victims who were not identified by relatives."	main
About 216 victims have already been identified by relatives and their bodies collected for burial.	cause_general
The official made the remarks at Ukara Island where the nine were buried that he will soon announce names of members of an investigation team formed by the government.	cause_general
On Friday, Tanzanian President Magufuli announced a four-day mourning period for the victims of the ferry accident.	cause_general
According to sources, the ferry, with a capacity of 101 passengers and 25 tonnes of cargo, capsized at around 1 p.m. local time Thursday.	cause_specific
Magufuli also ordered the arrest of safety inspectors from the country's transport regulator, the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-05 06:44:41|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
LOS ANGELES, Oct. 4 (Xinhua) -- A man living in Los Angeles was sentenced to 221 years to life in state prison for trying to kill six Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies and wounding two of them, authority said Thursday.	main
According to a statement issued by the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office, 42-year-old Juan Manuel Martinez was found guilty of six counts of attempted murder, five counts of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm and one count each of false imprisonment of a hostage, dissuading a witness by threat of force and possession of a firearm by a felon.	cause_specific
At Thursday's sentencing, a Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge ordered Martinez to spend 221 years to life behind bars, the statement said.	cause_general
The incident that Martinez involved occurred on June 23 last year, when he shot and wounded a motorcycle deputy who pulled him over during a DUI checkpoint and wounded another deputy as he fled.	distant_historical
Martinez opened fire on other deputies before hiding in a converted garage for nearly eight hours.	cause_specific
This shooting incident forced a SWAT team at bay for nearly eight hours before he was arrested.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 00:29:43|Editor: Yurou	error
"Hundreds of Palestinian demonstrators joined the protest on Tuesday, which was called ""together for protecting the rights of refugees and breaking the Israeli siege."""	cause_general
Since March 30, the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have been going through popular protests against Israel.	cause_general
Demonstrators protest close to the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip, which has been ruled by Hamas movement since 2007.	cause_general
On Monday night, two Palestinian young men were killed and another was injured after a missile fired by an Israeli drone directly hit them when they approached the fence of the border.	cause_general
Al-Qedra said that since March 30, around 180 Palestinians were killed and over 19,000 injured, more than half of whom were shot by Israeli soldiers' gunfire, including women, children, paramedics and journalists.	cause_general
Israel accused Islamic Hamas movement of standing behind organizing the protests and rallies to pressure Israel to end around 12 years of a tight blockade imposed on Gaza.	cause_general
Efforts exerted by Egypt and the United Nations Special envoy Nickolay Mladenov had so far failed to broker a cease-fire agreement between Israel and Hamas-led groups in the Gaza Strip.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Palestinian protesters take part in clashes with Israeli troops after a protest at Erez crossing near the border with Israel, northern Gaza Strip, on Sept. 18, 2018.	error
Two Palestinians were killed and more than 30 wounded on Tuesday evening by Israeli troops' gunfire in northern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said.	error
(Xinhua)	error
GAZA, Sept. 18 (Xinhua) -- Two Palestinians were killed and more than 30 wounded on Tuesday evening by Israeli troops' gunfire in northern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said.	main
Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman of the health ministry in Gaza, told reporters that one of the two killed is Mohamed Abu Naji, 34 years old, and the other's identity is still unknown.	main
Al-Qedra said that over 30 Palestinians were injured, including a paramedic and two local photo journalists, adding that they were injured by Israeli soldiers' gunfire in northern Gaza Strip.	cause_general
"The demonstration at Erez crossing on the border was organized by the high commission of the ""Great March of Return"" to defy the Israeli blockade."	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-06-16 15:34:40|Editor: zh	error
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on June 16, 2018 shows the scene of a traffic accident in Vietnam's central highlands Kon Tum province.	error
An inter-provincial coach carrying 42 people plunged off a pass in Vietnam's central highlands Kon Tum province on early Saturday, killing three people and injuring 18 others, the provincial police said.	error
(Xinhua/VNA)	error
HANOi, June 16 (Xinhua) -- An inter-provincial coach carrying 42 people plunged off a pass in Vietnam's central highlands Kon Tum province on early Saturday, killing thee people and injuring 18 others, the provincial police said.	main
The coach, departing from northern Hai Duong province, plunged off Lo Xo Pass to more than 40 meters below.	main
In March, another inter-provincial coach met with a similar accident on the pass, killing its driver and injuring 19 passengers.	distant_historical
Between January and May, 7,490 traffic accidents occurred in Vietnam, killing 3,476 people, severely injuring 1,988 people and lightly hurting 3,774 others, said the country's Traffic Police Department.	cause_general
CAIRO, June 28 (Xinhua) -- The Egyptian police killed four terrorists of the so-called Hasm group in a shootout during a raid on their hiding place in Upper Egypt's province of Assiut, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said in a statement Thursday.	main
The police said the four were involved in a car bomb attack on March 24 in the northern province of Alexandria that killed two policemen and wounded at least four others.	cause_specific
A day after the blast, which failed to harm Alexandria security chief, the police announced killing six of Hasm group militants and said they were involved in the terror operation.	cause_general
The security forces also arrested two Hasm members during relevant raids, according to Thursday's statement.	cause_general
The police refers to Hasm group as the armed wing of the currently outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group of former Islamist President Mohamed Morsi.	cause_general
Hasm appeared in late 2016 and claimed responsibility for a number of terrorist attacks that killed policemen in the country.	distant_historical
Terror activities in Egypt have killed hundreds of policemen, soldiers and civilians since the military toppled Morsi in July 2013 in response to mass protests against his one-year rule and his Brotherhood group.	cause_general
The Sinai-based branch of the Islamic State (IS) regional terrorist group claimed responsibility for most of the terror operations in Egypt over the past few years.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the Egyptian forces killed hundreds of terrorists and arrested thousands of suspects during the country's anti-terror war declared by President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, the army chief then, following Morsi's ouster.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-22 14:04:34|Editor: xuxin	error
"One of them was involved in the abduction and killing of a police constable Saturday,"" a police official said."	cause_general
The policeman, identified as Salem Ahmed Shah, who had been undergoing police training in Kathua, was kidnapped from his home in Kulgam where he was on leave.	cause_specific
His body was found hours later, following which the security forces launched a massive operation to track down his perpetrators.	cause_specific
A month ago, an Indian Army soldier was kidnapped and killed by terrorists in southern Kashmir while he was heading home to celebrate the holy Muslim festival of Eid.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Kashmiri people gather around a house damaged in a gunfight in Khudwani village in Kulgam district, about 70 km south of Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, July 22, 2018.	error
Indian security forces Sunday killed three militants in Indian-controlled Kashmir who abducted and murdered a police personnel on Saturday, police said.	error
The militants were killed by a joint team of the Indian Army, para-military Central Reserve Police Force and the state police in a gunfight in Kashmir's Kulgam district, some 70 km from capital Srinagar.	error
(Xinhua/Javed Dar)	error
NEW DELHI, July 22 (Xinhua) -- Indian security forces Sunday killed three militants in Indian-controlled Kashmir who abducted and murdered a police personnel on Saturday, police said.	main
The militants were killed by a joint team of the Indian Army, para-military Central Reserve Police Force and the state police in a gunfight in Kashmir's Kulgam district, some 70 km from capital Srinagar.	cause_general
"""The three militants, who had holed up in a locality in Kulgam's Khudwani area, were killed by security forces."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-11 04:27:45|Editor: yan	error
"""This investigation called upon a great deal of resources and long hours for everyone involved,"" said Superintendent Donna Richardson, Officer-in-Charge of IHIT in a news release."	distant_evaluation
"""The successful outcome in this investigation was a result of the diligence, unwavering commitment and relentless pursuit of justice from all of our investigators,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""The incident had a profound impact on the community,"" said Chief Superintendent Deanne Burleigh, Officer-in-Charge of Burnaby RMCP."	distant_evaluation
"""I hope that this arrest helps Marrisa's family and the community in their healing process,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""I want to thank IHIT, our own members from Burnaby RCMP and all of our other policing partners who worked diligently to ensure that the suspect was brought to justice in this challenging investigation."""	distant_evaluation
Police said the massive investigation involved canvassing more than 1,300 residents in the area around Central Park, the location at which Shen's body was found just hours after she was reported missing.	cause_general
They conducted more than 600 interviews, reviewed more than 1,000 hours of video footage from 60 locations in the area and eliminated more than 2,000 persons of interest.	cause_general
IHIT told reporters on Monday that Ali arrived in Canada 17 months ago as a refugee.	distant_historical
They said the murder still appears to be a random act of violence, meaning Shen did not know her alleged attacker.	distant_evaluation
Ali is now in custody and will make his next appearance in court on Sept. 14.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
"""We would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for all of their ongoing support and concern for us in this past year,"" the Shen family said through the police."	distant_evaluation
"""We are aware that so many people reached out to the police to provide information and we were so grateful for that."""	distant_evaluation
They also thanked the media and the police for their work on the case.	distant_evaluation
"""We hope that justice will now be served and that Marrisa can finally be at peace in heaven,"" the statement said."	distant_expectations_consequences
VANCOUVER, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- Police announced charges here Monday against a refugee from Syria for the murder of a 13-year-old girl more than a year after her body was found in a local park.	main
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP)'s Integrated Homicide Investigation Team (IHIT) announced first degree murder charges against 28-year-old Ibrahim Ali, a Syrian refugee who arrived in Canada 17 months ago.	main
Marrisa Shen, the child of Chinese immigrants to Canada, was found murdered on July 18 in Burnaby's Central Park not far from her home.	distant_historical
Police deemed her death a random act of violence and launched what they called their largest investigation in 15 years.	distant_historical
Police said new evidence in recent days identified Burnaby resident Ali as the lone, prime suspect.	cause_general
They arrested him without incident on Friday, Sept. 7, in Burnaby, a metropolitan center that neighbors the City of Vancouver.	main
IHIT said Ali was not known to police until this investigation.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 03:40:26|Editor: xuxin	error
"""You see on their faces that there is no trace of remorse."	distant_evaluation
"That is what makes you mad,"" she told local Real FM radio station, referring to her son's murderer and ultra-rightists."	distant_evaluation
The march started from the site where the killing took place outside a cafeteria and continued to Golden Dawn's offices, at the center of Piraeus.	main
Police forces had been deployed in the area, fearing clashes between leftists and members of far-right groups.	cause_general
Minor scuffles occurred with hooded protesters pelting rocks at anti-riot policemen who responded by using tear gas, Greek national news agency AMNA reported.	cause_general
Fyssas' death was the first politically-motivated crime committed by a Golden Dawn supporter since the party's entrance in parliament for first time in 2012, amid voters' anger and disappointment at the harsh austerity introduced to deal with the financial crisis.	distant_historical
His murder sparked a judicial investigation that culminated in a criminal trial against the party and dozens of its members, which started in April 2015.	distant_historical
Since then a series of delays has stalled the procedure, while Golden Dawn has entered the parliament again in the 2015 general elections and today holds 15 seats in the 300-member strong assembly.	cause_general
"""September 18th is a day of suffering for every democrat, a black page in the modern history of our country."	distant_evaluation
"The murder of Pavlos Fyssas by the criminal gang of the neo-fascists of Golden Dawn reminded us in the most tragic way where the ideologies of hate are leading,"" Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras wrote on Twitter."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
People take part in a march marking the 5th anniversary of the murder of Pavlos Fyssas in Piraeus, Greece, on Sept. 18, 2018.	error
Anti-fascist groups organized a series of events in Athens and other cities of Greece on Tuesday, five years after the killing of 34-year-old musician Pavlos Fyssas by a far-right party supporter.	error
(Xinhua/Marios Lolos)	error
By Natasha Pavlopoulou	error
ATHENS, Sept. 18 (Xinhua) -- Anti-fascist groups organized a series of events in Athens and other cities of Greece on Tuesday, five years after the killing of 34-year-old musician Pavlos Fyssas by a far-right party supporter.	main
On Sept. 18, 2013, Fyssas, a rapper with an anti-fascist action, was stabbed to death in Piraeus port suburb of Keratsini by George Roupakias, a member of the neo-fascist Golden Dawn (Chryssi Avghi) party.	distant_historical
Leading the march on Tuesday was the banner of Fyssas' family including Fyssas' mother Magda Fyssa.	main
Demonstrators protest against last year's shooting death of black teenager Laquan McDonald by a white policeman in the downtown shopping district of Chicago, the United States, Nov. 27, 2015.	error
The jury reached the second-degree murder verdict instead of first-degree, which means they found the officer believed his life was in danger at that time but the belief was unreasonable and his reaction was unjustified.	cause_general
Jurors told media later that the officer's claim of self-defense did not match video footage and they could not buy it.	distant_evaluation
"Second-degree murder carries a sentence of 4 to 20 years, said special prosecutor Joseph McMahon, who called the verdict ""gratifying"" and justice for Laquan McDonald and his family."	distant_evaluation
Van Dyke was also found guilty of 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm.	cause_general
"""The end of this trial offers an opportunity for this city to come together,"" McMahon added."	distant_evaluation
However, Van Dyke's lead attorney, Daniel Herbert, said he wasn't surprised by the verdict and vowed an appeal on the judge's refusal to move the trial outside Cook County because of the extensive pretrial publicity.	distant_evaluation
"He argued that it was ""a sad day for law enforcement."""	distant_evaluation
Hundreds of people marched along a main avenue in downtown Chicago after the verdict, interrupting traffic.	cause_general
But the demonstration remained peaceful so far.	cause_general
(Xinhua/He Xianfeng)	error
CHICAGO, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke was found guilty of second-degree murder in fatally shooting black teenager Laquan McDonald four years ago.	main
Jurors reached the verdict on Friday afternoon for the high-profile trail as Chicago police enhanced their presence in the city, bracing for possible protests and even violence in case of a not guilty outcome.	cause_general
"Learning the verdict, demonstrators erupted in cheers outside the courthouse, chanting, ""Justice for Laquan."	distant_evaluation
"Justice for Laquan."""	distant_evaluation
White police officer Jason Van Dyke shot 17-year-old McDonald 16 times in 2014, which triggered racial tension for years in Chicago, the third largest city in the United States.	distant_historical
McDonald reportedly broke into a truck on the night of Oct. 20, 2014 and Jason Van Dyke was one of police officers dispatched to the scene.	distant_historical
McDonald carried a knife but walked from police when Van Dyke fired 16 shots into the teenager, the police car's dashcam video showed.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-29 05:48:21|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
"""A widow here would push her son for killing in revenge regardless of the consequences and the possible murder or escape of her son, because only then she would be no longer living in shame,"" the old lady told Xinhua at her one-storey home in Nag Ma'alla of Hugairat village in Qena."	distant_anecdotal
"62-year-old Mohamed Owais, also from Nag Ma'alla, lost both his brother and his 15-year-old nephew in a similar feud that represented ""the most difficult moments"" in his life."	distant_anecdotal
"""When my brother saw his boy smeared with blood and breathing his last, he lost consciousness and died and we buried them both together,"" Owais said while sitting outside his two-floor raw-brick house."	distant_anecdotal
The blood feud, Owais continued, went on for several years until the Owais family accepted a reconciliation brokered by security authorities and popular reconciliation committees one and a half years ago.	distant_anecdotal
The tradition of reconciliation in a blood feud is a kind of ceremony watched by all villagers, where the one whose turn is to be killed walks to the family whose turn is to take revenge carrying his death shroud, a white garment, in his arms.	cause_general
He submissively and apologetically lies down in front of the man who is supposed to kill him as a sign of seeking forgiveness.	cause_general
His apology is always accepted because it is considered in Upper Egypt as shame for him and honor for the other family.	cause_general
Lawmaker Hamza Abu Sehli from Qena, who lost his elder son in a blood feud with a big family, said that the recently reached reconciliation put an end to a wave of bloodshed between the two families and restored his inner peace.	cause_general
"""I convinced my family to accept the reconciliation urged by official and popular efforts to stop the killing circle between the two families, and my reconciliatory attitude was respected by everyone,"" the parliamentarian told Xinhua in the Upper Egyptian province."	distant_evaluation
Mahmoud Abdel-Mo'ez, a 65-year-old retired employee at the Ministry of Education, recalled the tragedy of losing his son during his wedding ceremony due to a vendetta feud and losing his wife who died out of grief over her son's death a few months later.	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
An elementary school student in Hugairat village, whose parents conditioned not to mention his name, lamented that most teachers are reluctant to show up at school due to the many surrounding feuds, noting that most students drop education at some stage.	distant_anecdotal
"""A lot of boys here learn how to carry guns since childhood,"" the boy continued with a sad tone."	distant_anecdotal
"""I hope that we all carry pens rather than guns for the best interest of our village and nation."""	distant_anecdotal
Despite the cancerous tradition, the authorities, in cooperation with wise people through special committees, managed to achieve dozens of reconciliations and end bloodshed between big families over the past few years.	cause_general
"""The security department in Qena, in cooperation with the governorate and the reconciliation committees, managed to achieve 100 reconciliations between feuding families in the past four years,"" said Qena's Deputy Security Chief Alaa al-Ayyat."	cause_general
"In the last two years, the police also seized more than 3,000 unlicensed guns with over 20,000 bullets in Qena province, which is known as ""the capital of Upper Egypt's tribes."""	cause_general
For his part, Governor of Qena Abdel-Hamid al-Haggan said that the political leadership puts the elimination of blood feuds as one of its priorities in Upper Egypt, particularly in Qena.	main
He stressed that such disputes negatively affect the nation's struggle for progress and development.	cause_general
"""The good traits and values of Upper Egyptians, including forgiveness, contributed to the rising number of reconciliations that reflects a positive change in Upper Egyptian cultures and thoughts,"" the governor told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
by Mahmoud Fouly, Ahmed al-Afyouni	error
"QENA, Egypt, July 28 (Xinhua) -- ""Vendetta is better than shame"" is a common saying in Upper Egypt, the tribal southern part of the country, which indicates how Upper Egyptian families think of the chronic tradition of blood feuds as ""an honor."""	distant_evaluation
The phenomenon has been prevailing in the tribal side of southern Egypt for decades or even generations, where family revenge killing equals honor, dignity and manhood, although most of the causes that triggered the enmity are often trivial, such as a quarrel about fighting kids, or a dispute over a phone recharge card.	cause_general
The norm in Upper Egypt is that when a family member is killed, the family buries the body but never holds a funeral until they kill the murderer or one of his dearest family members in revenge, and the blood feuds go on.	cause_general
"In Upper Egypt's Qena province, Nag Ma'alla of Hugairat village is referred to as ""the village of widows"" for there is almost no home without a widow who has lost her husband in a blood feud or without bullet holes or traces in the walls."	cause_general
Most of the village men involved in blood feuds live in the nearby mountains to escape either murder or arrest.	cause_general
"Widows usually dress only in black for long years as a sign of mourning and they breastfeed their babies the desire for blood revenge, said Fathiya al-Essaily, a 70-year-old woman from ""the village of widows,"" who lost both her husband and elder son in vendetta feuds."	distant_anecdotal
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-26 11:48:56|Editor: zh	error
Video Player Close	error
RIO DE JANEIRO, Aug. 25 (Xinhua) -- Brazil detained over 2,600 adults and around 340 minors in operations carried out against homicide and social violence in various states, said the police on Saturday.	main
"During the two-day ""Cronos"" operation, nearly 450 people were detained because of homicide and femicide, 1,252 for various crimes and 640 for drug trafficking or illegal possession of firearms."	main
State-run media Agencia Brasil reported that about 7,800 police officers, coordinated by the Ministry of Public Security, took part in the operation, which also found 383 kg of drugs, including marijuana and cocaine.	main
"""The most important is the protection and guarantee of life, especially combating femicide."	distant_evaluation
"This cowardly crime is unacceptable,"" Public Security Minister Raul Jungmann said."	distant_evaluation
According to data released by the Brazilian Public Security Yearbook 2018 earlier this month, the South American country has broken its own record for the number of murders in 2017, with homicide cases rising around 3 percent from 2016 to 63,880.	cause_general
BEIJING (Reuters) - A former mining magnate with suspected ties to the family of China’s retired security tsar Zhou Yongkang was sentenced to death on Friday on charges of leading a gang on a crime spree spanning two decades.	main
Liu’s lawyer could not be immediately reached for comment.	cause_general
Willy Lam, a scholar of Chinese history and politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said there would be extra attention paid to the case because of Liu’s links to the Zhou family.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I think what’s happening is that Xi Jinping and (Party anti-corruption tsar) Wang Qishan want to establish a harsh precedent because this is one of the biggest corruption cases since Xi took over,” Lam said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“They want to set a precedent to make people afraid, in a sense, to have a deterrence impact on corrupt officials.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Prosecutors in Hubei said Liu Han and his younger brother formed the gang in 1993.	distant_historical
It “carried out a vast number of criminal activities”, including the murders of nine people, they said.	distant_historical
Other members of the gang received sentences ranging from 11 years in prison to death, Xinhua said.	cause_general
State media reported that Liu, who was arrested last year, faced charges ranging from murder to gun-running and extortion for crimes carried out in Sichuan.	cause_specific
He denied leading a gang, and media reports said he denied killing anyone or holding or trading guns illegally.	distant_evaluation
Hanlong had attempted to take over Australia’s Sundance Resources Ltd, an exporter of iron ore focused on West Africa.	distant_historical
Liu Han, former chairman of Hanlong Mining, smokes a cigarette during a conference in Mianyang, Sichuan province, in this file photo taken March 21, 2008.REUTERS/Stringer/Files	error
The deal was scrapped a year ago after Hanlong missed funding deadlines.	distant_historical
Liu founded Hanlong Group, a conglomerate with interests in sectors from solar energy to real estate and infrastructure, in 1997.	distant_historical
The sentencing of Liu Han, handed down by a court in the central province of Hubei, was the culmination of one of the highest-profile cases against a private businessman since President Xi Jinping took office last year and began a campaign against pervasive graft.	cause_general
Liu’s younger brother Liu Yong, also known as Liu Wei, was also sentenced to death.	cause_general
Microblog statements from state media outlets China Central Television and the Xinhua news agency said the brothers, along with their 36-member “mafia-style” gang, committed intentional homicide.	distant_evaluation
Xi’s crackdown has zeroed in on Sichuan province, where Liu’s company - privately held Hanlong Mining - is based.	cause_general
Sichuan was a power base for Zhou, the retired chief of China’s vast domestic security apparatus, who stands at the centre of the biggest corruption scandal in more than six decades, sources have told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
Sources have told Reuters that Liu was once a business associate of Zhou Bin, Zhou Yongkang’s eldest son.	distant_historical
State media have not explicitly linked Liu’s case to Zhou Yongkang, but have said Liu’s rise coincided with Zhou’s time as Sichuan’s Communist Party boss.	distant_evaluation
Mourners carry the body of one of the seven Palestinians killed during an Israeli special forces operation in the Gaza Strip, during his funeral on November 12, 2018, in Khan Younis.	error
The group said that when the members of the special force were discovered, they killed Baraka and ran away towards the borderline area with Israel.	cause_specific
Hamas militants opened fire and chased the car to the border.	cause_specific
"""While our fighters were chasing the car, Israeli war jets intensively struck our fighters and killed six militants,"" said Hamas leaflet, adding that ""we are certain that one of the Israeli members was killed and others wounded."""	cause_specific
After the operation was over, Gaza militants fired dozens of rockets from the Gaza Strip into Israel.	cause_general
"""Hamas armed wing and the Palestinian armed resistance defeated the Israeli army that considers itself one of the most powerful armies in the world,"" said the leaflet, adding ""our armed resistance will keep defending our land."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"Hanan Baraka, Noor Baraka's sister, told reporters that her brother was very kind to her and to the entire family, adding that killing him in such a way was ""an awful crime and that not only Hamas, but the Palestinians will revenge his blood."""	distant_expectations_consequences
The mourners carrying the coffins of the seven militants on their shoulders, shouting slogans of revenge.	main
"Hassan Abdo, a Gaza-based political analyst, told Xinhua that what happened last night in eastern Khan Younis was ""a clear Israeli violation and a breaching to the calm understandings brokered by Egypt."""	distant_evaluation
Meanwhile, the join committee that comprises the Palestinian factions' armed wing, including Hamas movement, held Israel responsible for the attack and for any future consequences, adding that the militant groups are able to defeat any aggression waged on the Gaza Strip.	distant_evaluation
The Palestinian Authority condemned the fresh escalation in the Gaza Strip and the killing of seven Palestinians in airstrikes on eastern Khan Younis.	distant_evaluation
(AFP photo)	error
"Majdi al-Khalidi, an aide to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, told Palestine Radio that ""the Israeli escalation campaign in the Gaza Strip is condemned and shows that Israel is a state of occupation."""	distant_evaluation
"GAZA, Nov. 12 (Xinhua) -- Thousands of Palestinian mourners and militants buried on Monday seven Palestinian militants in southern Gaza Strip town of Khan Younis amid calls of ""painful revenge from Israel."""	main
Mourners and masked militants wearing masks and holding guns carried the bodies of the seven militants from the hospital in the city of Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip and went to their homes for a goodbye look.	main
The bodies of the militants belong to six members of al-Qassam Brigades, Hamas armed wing and one member of Salahidin Brigades, the armed wing of the pro-Hamas Popular Resistance Committees.	cause_general
The mourners and the militants carried the bodies of the seven militants wrapped with green Hamas flags and took them from their homes and went to the mosque for the last prayers before taking them to the graveyard for burial.	main
The seven militants were killed on Sunday night in an exchange of fire with a special Israeli army force that entered into an area east of the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis.	cause_specific
According to Israeli army and Hamas armed wing, the soldiers of the special were in a civilian car that drove three kilometers into an area that is under Hamas militants' control.	cause_specific
Hamas armed wing said in a leaflet that the aim of the Israeli special military operation into the area of Abbassan, east of Khan Younis, was to kidnap a senior Hamas Military Commander called Noor Baraka.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-12 06:50:37|Editor: xuxin	error
"""This special force killed the militant leader Nur Barakeh,"" said the statement."	main
"""After the special force was detected, our troops chased the force and dealt with it."""	cause_general
The group said the war planes then intervened and began to strike on the area to cover the withdrawal of the special force from the place.	main
Nur Barakeh, 37 years old, is the commander of Hamas military wing al-Qassam Brigades in the eastern area of Khan Younis.	cause_general
Israel accused him of being responsible for digging tunnels, firing rockets into Israel, shooting at Israeli soldiers by snipers and carrying out attempts to kidnap Israeli soldiers.	distant_evaluation
It is the first military escalation between Hamas and the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip since an Egyptian-brokered understanding for calm in the Gaza Strip was reached between the two sides last month.	cause_general
Eyad al-Bozzom, spokesman of the interior ministry in Gaza, confirmed that a security event happened east of the southern Gaza Strip town of Khan Younis.	cause_general
He added that several Palestinian members of the armed resistance were killed and wounded and the police declared a status of alert to follow up the incident.	cause_general
Security sources and eyewitnesses said they heard the sound of an exchange of fire on the outskirts of the eastern part of the town, close to the border with Israel.	cause_general
The eyewitnesses said that Israeli fighter jets hovered over the area and various sounds of bombs and explosions were heard.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Al-Bozzom declined to give more details on what happened in the area.	cause_general
Palestinians inspect the remains of a destroyed building by Israeli airstrike, in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, on Nov. 12, 2018.	error
At least six Islamic Hamas militants were killed on Sunday night in Israeli airstrikes on southeastern Gaza Strip, east of the city of Khan Younis, medical sources said.	error
(Xinhua/Khaled Omar)	error
GAZA, Nov. 11 (Xinhua) -- At least six Islamic Hamas militants were killed on Sunday night in Israeli airstrikes on southeastern Gaza Strip, east of the city of Khan Younis, medical sources said.	main
Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman of the health ministry in Gaza told reporters that seven other Palestinians were injured in the intensive Israeli airstrikes.	main
In response, Gaza militant groups fired barrages of rockets from the Gaza Strip into Israel, according to Israeli media and local Gaza media reports.	main_consequence
"Al-Qassam Brigades, Hamas military wing, said in a press statement that ""a special force that belongs to the Zionist enemy, driving a civilian car, infiltrated 3 km into the area of eastern Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip."""	cause_general
KAMPALA, June 14 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military has arrested the country's former police chief and four senior officers over alleged murder of a police spokesperson last year, local media reported Thursday.	main
Since his dismissal, some of Kayihura's close aides have been arrested over allegations of collusion to kidnap the former bodyguard of Rwanda's President Paul Kagame in Kampala and forceful deportation of refugees.	cause_general
Kale Kayihura, former Inspector General of Police (IGP), and close associates were arrested for alleged involvement in the assassination of former Assistant Inspector General of Police, Andrew Felix Kaweesi, who doubled as director of human resource development and police spokesperson in March 2017, according to the state-owned daily New Vision.	main
Kayihura's arrested associates include Jonathan Baroza, his former personal assistant; Herbert Muhangi, the former commander of police flying squad; Ndahura Amooti, former head of crime intelligence and Richard Ndabwoine, former cyber intelligence chief.	main
"""Security sources revealed that the arrest of Kayihura and his colleagues is in connection with the assassination of former police spokesperson."	cause_specific
"All the suspects are expected to be charged before the military court martial,"" said the paper."	distant_expectations_consequences
Kaweesi was shot dead by unknown gunmen, together with his bodyguard and driver in Kulambiro, a suburb of the capital Kampala, while heading to work on March 17, 2017.	distant_historical
Kayihura who is still a serving army officer of the Uganda People's Defense Forces has been staying at his Kashagama farm after handing over IGP office to his former deputy on March 15.	cause_general
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni sacked Kayihura and Henry Tumukunde as police chief and security minister respectively in a surprise reshuffle in March.	distant_historical
The sacking came after media reports of poor working relationship over a power struggle that led to an increase in murders and insecurity in the East African country.	distant_historical
A picture taken on May 6, 2016 from the Israeli side along the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip shows the exit of an alleged offensive tunnel leading into Israel.	error
A picture taken on May 6, 2016 from the Israeli side along the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip shows the exit of an alleged offensive tunnel leading into Israel.	error
(Xinhua/AFP Photo)	error
"According to his indictment, he took part in digging ""combat tunnels"" that were designed to be used by Hamas to kidnap Israeli soldiers, perpetrate suicide attacks, and attacking Israeli communities near the border."	cause_specific
"The announcement came after last week Israel said it has uncovered a Hamas ""terror tunnel"" stretching from Gaza to Israel."	cause_general
Increased military activity by soldiers and bulldozers near the border to uncover the tunnel triggered four days of fire exchanges.	cause_general
A Palestinian woman was killed in her home by the strikes while no injuries were reported on the Israeli side.	cause_general
(Xinhua/AFP Photo)	error
"JERUSALEM, May 10 (Xinhua) -- Israeli security forces said Tuesday a Hamas teen operative from the Gaza Strip has been arrested in Israel and divulged a much-coveted information about cross-border ""terror tunnels."""	main
The 17-year-old Palestinian from Jabalia city in northern Gaza is an activist with Hamas' military wing of Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, the Shin Bet security agency said in a statement.	cause_general
He was arrested near the border on Friday after infiltrating into Israel's territory, the Shin Bet said.	main
On Tuesday, he was indicted at the Be'er Sheva District Court in southern Israel.	cause_general
"A military spokesperson said in a separate statement that during his investigation, the defendant ""conveyed detailed information regarding continued efforts to further develop the Hamas tunnel network."""	cause_general
"According to the Shin Bet, he enrolled in ""Hamas' northern Gaza division"" shortly after Israel's 51-day offensive in Gaza in July and August of 2014, which claimed the lives of at least 2,251 Palestinians."	distant_historical
"He went into a training program, much of it ""bore offensive characteristics, including penetrating (Israel,) breaking into buildings, and exploding bombs,"" according to the Shin Bet."	distant_historical
President Felipe Calderón ran last summer on a promise to create jobs, but in his first five weeks as chief executive he has made it clear his first priority is to turn his government into the scourge of organized crime.	distant_evaluation
This week, a mass grave was found with seven bodies bearing signs of gangland executions, and a 12-year-old boy was executed in what appeared to be a drug dispute.	cause_general
Still, Mr. Calderón made a rare appearance dressed in military fatigues on Wednesday to congratulate troops in Michoacán and to tout their successes.	cause_general
Four top members of the Valencia drug gang were arrested and hundreds of acres of marijuana were burned, the authorities said.	main_consequence
In Tijuana on Tuesday, Mr. Calderón ordered 2,600 soldiers and 110 federal police officers to begin an operation aimed at ending the grip of mobsters on the local police department, slowing the flow of drugs and ending kidnappings and killings related to the trade.	cause_general
The officers began patrolling the streets with caravans of pickups filled with heavily armed officers in black combat outfits.	main_consequence
The army set up roadblocks, while navy boats prowled the coast and helicopters buzzed overhead.	main_consequence
Soldiers in camouflage uniforms pulled over cars at random and searched them.	main_consequence
Federal and state police manned checkpoints in the town.	main_consequence
The federal government also stripped all 2,320 city police officers of their weapons on Wednesday night.	main_consequence
The move prompted fears that anarchy would break out in the city streets, where drunken brawls, car thefts, muggings and drug-induced mayhem are a daily fact of life.	distant_expectations_consequences
The president has sent thousands of federal police and troops into the drug-plagued states of Michoacán and Baja California to break up criminal organizations and stop the brutal violence they perpetuate.	main
The city secretary of public security, Luis Javier Algorri, said Friday morning there were too few federal officers to keep order, much less ferret out drug gangs at the same time.	distant_evaluation
''We think they don't have the experience to deal with these sorts of problems,'' Mr. Algorri said.	distant_evaluation
''And without firearms this kind of work will be hard to carry out.''	distant_evaluation
The decision to disarm the local police reflects the belief among federal officials that many local officers are on the payroll of drug cartels as assassins, enforcers and, in some cases, kidnappers.	distant_evaluation
Federal prosecutors say the lack of help from the local police in border towns, either because they are corrupt or afraid, makes it nearly impossible to dismantle drug cartels.	distant_evaluation
The mayor of Tijuana, Jorge Hank Rhon, said he welcomed the intervention.	distant_evaluation
He did not dispute that a significant number of police officers were corrupt, saying their salaries are so low that drug lords can easily bribe them.	distant_evaluation
''It's not the police,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''It's some policemen.''	distant_evaluation
Many residents said they were tired of finding victims of mob executions in the streets in the mornings, as well as the wave of kidnappings that has rocked this border town over the last 12 months.	distant_evaluation
The federal forces have burned marijuana crops, arrested suspected drug gang members and disarmed local police forces the authorities say are crippled by corruption.	main_consequence
Last year there were more than 300 killings in the city, most of them linked to drug gangs, including 25 police officers, authorities said.	distant_historical
In interviews, most residents said they welcomed the crackdown, even as some expressed skepticism the caravan-style patrols and roadblocks would do much to hurt drug traffickers.	distant_evaluation
David López, a 28-year-old importer, watched Wednesday night as about 25 federal policemen in full combat uniforms and carrying machine guns pulled over an expensive pickup truck outside a downtown nightclub.	distant_anecdotal
It seemed to him a showy waste to use a small army of officers to make a traffic stop.	distant_anecdotal
Tijuana has always been a major corridor for drug smugglers because it is one of the busiest border crossings in the country.	distant_evaluation
Since the 1990s, the infamous Arellano Félix family has controlled the traffic of cocaine, heroin, marijuana and synthetic drugs, but in recent years the organization has been weakened significantly, law enforcement authorities say.	cause_general
Federal police commanders acknowledged their job would be difficult in a city of 1.5 million where most of them do not even know the street names, much less the workings of the criminal underworld.	distant_evaluation
Still, several expressed confidence they would prevail.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It's a big city and there are a lot of people here who are crooked,'' said Inspector Alejandro Zapata.	distant_evaluation
''But this is not going to end until we put a end to the Arellano Félix organization.''	distant_expectations_consequences
''We will continue with the operations that let us re-establish the minimum conditions of security in some parts of the republic, so that little by little we can take back our streets, our parks, our schools,'' Mr. Calderón said in a New Year's message to the nation.	distant_evaluation
But some opposition politicians and experts on the drug trade wonder if the federal interventions are not more flash than substance, and question if they will have a lasting impact on the drug trade and police corruption, whose roots run deep.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Calderón's predecessor, Vicente Fox, created an elite force to combat narcotics dealers and arrested dozens of drug cartel leaders during his six-year term.	distant_historical
Rather than stanch the violence, however, the arrests led to a brutal war between the remaining traffickers for the smuggling routes and territory.	distant_historical
In the southwestern state of Michoacán, where more than 500 people were killed last year, the violence has persisted despite the president's decision to send in more than 7,000 officers and soldiers last month.	cause_general
Drug dealers killed about 21 people during the last three weeks of December, according to local news reports.	cause_general
A third youth has been arrested in connection with a series of vicious crimes in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens that left one man dead and another in a coma, the police said yesterday.	main
The suspect, Herman Gonzalez, 19, of Van Cleef Street, just west of the park, was arrested Friday and charged with two counts of second-degree robbery, the police said.	main
It was not immediately clear what role Mr. Gonzalez might have played in the crimes that the police say linked him to the two other suspects, Belter Yovanni Gubara Rivera and Marcos Polanco, both 17.	distant_evaluation
But a law enforcement official said that on Nov. 20, he attacked a 20-year-old man delivering food on a bicycle.	cause_specific
The man was punched and kicked, and the robber stole $200 and his cellphone, the official said, adding that Mr. Gonzalez had confessed.	cause_specific
The police said Mr. Rivera and Mr. Polanco both confessed to attacking and robbing several people in the park between Nov. 22 and Dec. 25.	cause_general
They were being held without bail.	cause_general
One victim, Jae Woo Park, 36, of Little Neck, was severely beaten on Dec. 25 and was still unconscious.	cause_general
Mr. Rivera was also charged with murder in the death of Carlos Flores, 40, whose lacerated body was found in one of the park's ponds on Dec. 5.	cause_general
The government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi came under fierce attack on Monday after the Taliban said it had killed an Afghan hostage who was a colleague of the Italian journalist freed last month in a prisoner swap.	main
Gino Strada, the leader of the group, said Monday that Mr. Prodi's government paid $2 million in ransom that freed Gabriele Torsello, a journalist kidnapped in October.	cause_specific
In a statement, Mr. Prodi's office did not deny the payment but said it was applying the same practices established under the previous government of Silvio Berlusconi.	distant_evaluation
''The negotiations for the freeing of hostages have been conducted in a correct way and in tight collaboration with the Afghan government,'' read a statement from Mr. Prodi's office.	distant_evaluation
''Our priority has always been one: saving human lives.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Prodi condemned the execution of Mr. Naqshbandi and accused the opposition party of using his death for political gain.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Strada of Emergency urged the government to assist Rahamtullah Hanafi, who works for the group and is being detained by the Kabul government on suspicion of playing a part in Mr. Mastrogiacomo's kidnapping.	cause_general
Mr. Strada said that Mr. Hanafi was innocent and that he had delivered $2 million to the Taliban to free Mr. Torsello.	distant_evaluation
On Monday evening, Mr. Prodi told reporters that he had contacted Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, to request the release of Mr. Hanafi but that the decision was up to the Kabul government.	cause_general
Opposition party members criticized the Prodi government.	distant_evaluation
Sandro Bondi of the center-right Forza Italia party said he would seek a full a parliamentary inquiry and called on Mr. Prodi to resign.	distant_expectations_consequences
That journalist, Daniele Mastrogiacomo of La Repubblica, was freed on March 19 in exchange for five Taliban fighters released by the Afghan government.	cause_specific
A right-wing senator, Roberto Calderoli, accused the government of discriminating between Italian and Afghan hostages and called for Mr. Prodi's impeachment.	distant_evaluation
''The government negotiated in a discriminatory fashion, rushing to save what they saw as the A-league hostage and leaving the other, second-class captives to their tragic destiny,'' he told reporters.	distant_evaluation
THE REACH OF WAR	error
Correction: April 12, 2007, Thursday Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about mounting criticism of the Italian government's policy in a hostage crisis in Afghanistan misstated the nation that Italy had urged to release prisoners belonging to the Taliban in order to win the release of a kidnapped Italian journalist.	cause_general
It was Afghanistan, not Pakistan.	cause_general
Italy had lobbied Pakistan to make a deal.	cause_specific
At the time, the Italian government spokesman said, ''We think that the life of a person is very precious.''	distant_evaluation
But on Sunday, the Taliban said it killed Mr. Mastrogiacomo's translator, Ajmal Naqshbandi, after failing to arrange another prisoner swap.	cause_specific
Taliban fighters had already killed the men's driver.	cause_specific
The swap that led to Mr. Mastrogiacomo's release was roundly condemned by the United States, Britain and other allies, which argued that deals with terrorists only make civilians more vulnerable.	distant_evaluation
On Monday, there were fresh complaints in Italy by opposition parties and by a charity group that claimed that the government had paid millions of dollars to free an earlier hostage in Afghanistan.	main
That group, Emergency, acted as a mediator in the case of Mr. Mastrogiacomo.	cause_general
A former assistant superintendent and a former principal at a Texas state school for juvenile offenders were arrested Tuesday on charges of deviate sexual intercourse and other sexual contact with six boys ages 16 to 19.	main
His lawyer, Albert Valadez, said Tuesday that Mr. Hernandez ''maintains his innocence.''	distant_evaluation
Neither Mr. Brookins nor a lawyer could be reached for comment.	cause_general
The indictments were brought by a Ward County grand jury after the part-time district attorney, Randall W. Reynolds, ceded jurisdiction April 4 to Mr. Abbott and three other prosecutors from his office.	cause_general
Mr. Brookins and Mr. Hernandez were charged with 13 instances of using their mouths and hands on the genitals of youths detained at the school in 2004 and 2005.	distant_historical
The youths' names were withheld.	cause_general
The indictments were called ''excellent'' by Jay Kimbrough, a former deputy state attorney general and the special conservator named by Gov.	distant_evaluation
Rick Perry and legislative leaders to change the Youth Commission.	distant_evaluation
According to documents that have emerged in recent weeks, the Youth Commission knew as early as February 2005 that a Texas Ranger had visited the school to investigate a math tutor's report that students had complained of being sexually abused by Mr. Brookins.	distant_historical
The Ranger, Brian Burzynski, corroborated the accusations, along with similar complaints against Mr. Hernandez.	cause_general
Both administrators resigned without criminal charges, and state investigators are examining why commission records remained secret and whether they might have been altered to hide evidence of the accusations.	cause_general
The two, Ray E. Brookins, 42, and John P. Hernandez, 41, administrators serving the Texas Youth Commission, were named two years ago in a Texas Rangers investigation into accusations of sexual abuse at the West Texas State School in Pyote.	distant_historical
Before transferring to West Texas, Mr. Brookins had been disciplined at another Texas youth facility for having pornography on his computer.	distant_historical
Both men were reported to superiors for taking boys from the dorms at night for trysts behind closed doors, official reports later documented.	distant_historical
After resigning from the state school, Mr. Hernandez was hired at a charter school in Midland.	distant_historical
But the findings, cited in internal reports, came to light only with news accounts in February, setting off a statewide outcry, legislative inquiries and a revamping of the Youth Commission.	cause_specific
More than 2,100 complaints of mistreatment have been received on a hot line and families have filed civil lawsuits.	cause_specific
''With today's indictments, the victims of sexual abuse at West Texas State School are a step closer to the justice they deserve,'' said the Texas attorney general, Greg Abbott, who took over the prosecution after complaints that the local district attorney had let the case languish.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Brookins, who had been acting superintendent in charge of the West Texas State School, was arrested at his Austin home and ordered held on $100,000 bond at the Travis County jail, the attorney general's office said.	main
The office said Mr. Hernandez was arrested at his parents' home in Fort Stockton and ordered held on $600,000 bond at the Pecos County jail there.	main
Neither man has appeared in court to offer a plea, a spokesman for Mr. Abbott said late Tuesday.	cause_general
Mr. Hernandez, in a phone conversation weeks ago, said he would plead not guilty if indicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
Recent interrogations of arrested members of Hamas in the West Bank town of Qalqilya produced information that the Islamic organization there was planning imminent terrorist attacks against Israel, including one using a large truck bomb, the Israeli Shin Bet internal security service said Tuesday.	main
The statement went on to warn that Hamas operatives in Qalqilya ''continue to work on the planning and execution of significant attacks, including ones in the immediate future.''	distant_evaluation
The truck bomb was many times larger than bombs that have been used to explode Israeli buses.	cause_general
In the wake of the Shin Bet statement, David Baker, an official in the office of Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, said Hamas ''continues to target Israeli civilians.	distant_evaluation
''Terrorism is a cornerstone of the new Palestinian government, a government that should be shunned,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
In March, Hamas joined with the more mainstream Fatah faction in a unity government.	cause_general
Israel maintains a complete boycott of the government, and has been calling on the international community to do the same, with limited success.	cause_general
The United States and Europe are maintaining contacts with the non-Hamas ministers, and a senior British diplomat met with Prime Minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas last week on what was described as a humanitarian mission to help secure the release of a British journalist kidnapped in Gaza.	cause_general
Hamas was at the vanguard of Palestinian suicide bombing campaigns in Israel, starting in the 1990s.	distant_historical
But all recent suicide bombings in Israel have been carried out by the smaller, more extreme Islamic Jihad group, according to Israeli security officials.	distant_evaluation
The Palestinian unity government guidelines refer to the Palestinians' ''legitimate right'' to resistance ''in all its forms,'' but also speak of extending the cease-fire from Gaza to the West Bank.	cause_general
Hamas, which is now the dominant faction in the Palestinian government, has not conducted suicide attacks within Israel since 2004 and has been committed to an Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire agreement in the Gaza Strip since November.	cause_general
There have long been differences between the more pragmatic political leaders of Hamas, who now sit in government, and the military underground that is believed to answer to more hard-line leaders in exile.	cause_general
A senior Israeli Army commander, speaking on condition of anonymity, said recently that in Israel's assessment, Hamas had not changed its policy regarding attacks in Israel, but that there were ''some groups in the military wing of Hamas that don't like the cease-fire or the unity government.''	distant_anecdotal
On March 19, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, the military underground of Hamas, claimed responsibility for the shooting and wounding of an Israeli Electric Corporation employee who was working inside Israel near the Gaza border fence.	cause_general
That was the first attack of any kind claimed by Hamas since November.	cause_general
Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, denied any divisions in Hamas over the unity government and dismissed such talk as ''Israeli propaganda aimed at trying to bring about Hamas's collapse.''	distant_evaluation
A Hamas-orchestrated suicide bombing in the Park Hotel in the coastal city of Netanya on the eve of Passover in 2002 killed 30, and precipitated Israel's reinvasion of the Palestinian cities of the West Bank.	distant_historical
Shortly afterward, the Israeli cabinet approved the construction of the West Bank security barrier, following intense public pressure to find a way of keeping suicide bombers out.	distant_historical
The driver of the explosive-laden truck sent recently to Tel Aviv was able to pass through a gate in the barrier, exploiting the fact that he holds an Israeli identification card because his father is married to an Israeli citizen, Shin Bet said.	cause_specific
The truck also had Israeli license plates, the statement said.	cause_specific
It did not indicate who the driver was or what had happened to him.	cause_general
People who usually speak for Hamas would not react to the Shin Bet report on Tuesday, apparently in an attempt to not lend the allegations any credence.	cause_general
According to Israeli military officials, the Hamas infrastructure is particularly developed in Qalqilya, where Hamas won all the seats in local council elections in 2005.	distant_evaluation
Some observers have pointed to a growing split within Hamas between those in the government who are seeking international recognition and want to refrain from attacking Israel and more hard-line members.	distant_evaluation
Hamas has denied that such a division exists.	distant_evaluation
According to a rare public statement by Shin Bet, its agents found out about what they said were plans for suicide attacks from Qalqilya after interrogating detainees and learning of the truck bomb.	main
Shin Bet said it was told that a would-be suicide bomber had driven a truck packed with about 220 pounds of explosives to the Tel Aviv area in March, but for unspecified reasons, the attack was not carried out.	cause_specific
The truck returned to Qalqilya, and later blew up there in what Shin Bet termed a ''work accident.''	cause_general
Shin Bet said that 19 members of the Hamas network in Qalqilya were arrested in March, which it said thwarted plans to carry out attacks during the recent Passover holiday.	cause_specific
Four years ago this week, as American troops made their first, triumphant entrance into Baghdad, joyous Iraqis pulled down a giant statue of Saddam Hussein.	distant_historical
More Iraqi and American lives will be sacrificed.	distant_expectations_consequences
Even among Shiites, who suffered so much at the hands of Saddam Hussein and who are the supposed beneficiaries of Mr. Maliki's shortsighted policies, there is a deep disillusionment and anger.	distant_evaluation
This week, a Washington Post reporter interviewed Khadim al-Jubouri, who four years ago swung his sledgehammer to help knock down the dictator's statue.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Jubouri said that ever since he watched that statue being built he had nourished a dream of bringing it down and ushering in much better times.	distant_evaluation
Now, with friends and relatives killed, kidnapped or driven from their homes, the prices of basic necessities soaring and electricity rationed to four hours a day, Mr. Jubouri says the change of regimes ''achieved nothing'' and he has come to hate the American military presence he once welcomed.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Maliki's supporters can be even more frightening to listen to.	distant_evaluation
This week's demonstration in Najaf was organized by the fiercely anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, whose political party and militia helped put Mr. Maliki in power and are still among his most important allies.	cause_general
Two months into the Baghdad security drive, the gains Mr. Bush is banking on have not materialized.	distant_evaluation
More American soldiers continue to arrive, and their commanders are talking about extending the troop buildup through the fall or into early next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
After four years, the political trend is even more discouraging.	distant_evaluation
It was powerful symbolism -- a murderous dictator toppled, Baghdadis taking to the streets without fear, American soldiers hailed as liberators.	distant_evaluation
There is no possible triumph in Iraq and very little hope left.	distant_evaluation
Editorial	error
After four years of occupation, untold numbers killed by death squads and suicide bombers, and searing experiences like Abu Ghraib, few Iraqis still look on American soldiers as liberators.	cause_general
Instead, thousands marked this week's anniversary by burning American flags and marching through the streets of Najaf chanting, ''Death to America.''	cause_general
Once again, tens of thousands of American troops are pouring into Baghdad.	cause_general
Yesterday the Pentagon announced that battle-weary Army units in Iraq would have to stay on for an additional three months past their scheduled return dates.	main
Mr. Bush is desperately gambling that by stretching the Army to the absolute limits of its deployable strength, he may be able to impose some relative calm in the capital.	distant_expectations_consequences
And he seems to imagine that should that gamble succeed, the Shiite-dominated government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki will, without any serious pressure from Washington, take the steps toward sharing political power and economic resources it has tenaciously resisted since the day it took office a year ago.	distant_expectations_consequences
Unless Mr. Maliki takes those steps -- eliminating militia and death squad members from the Iraqi Army and police, fairly sharing oil revenues, and rolling back laws that deny political and economic opportunities to the Sunni middle class -- no lasting security gains are possible.	distant_expectations_consequences
Two bombings in Algeria, one aimed at the main government building in the country's capital, killed at least 23 people on Wednesday in a sharp escalation of the violence linked to Al Qaeda that has spread across North Africa.	main
But the core of the group, hundreds strong, has steadfastly rejected reconciliation and last year aligned itself with Al Qaeda.	distant_historical
Its aim is to overthrow the government and install an Islamic theocracy there and throughout North Africa.	cause_general
Al Qaeda' s second in command, Ayman al-Zawahri, publicly anointed the group as Al Qaeda's representative in North Africa on the fifth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and in January the group changed its name to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, a region that includes Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco.	distant_historical
The group has apparently undergone a revival since then, drawing new members from across North Africa, terrorism experts in Europe and North Africa say.	distant_evaluation
Governments on both sides of the Mediterranean fear that the group is coalescing into a regional terror movement.	distant_expectations_consequences
''The concern is that Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb want their reach to be larger than it is now,'' said Rear Adm. William H. McRaven, commander of Special Operations Command Europe, speaking last month at his headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany.	distant_expectations_consequences
''They are already somewhat regional and growing.''	distant_evaluation
United States Special Operations forces are helping train troops in North Africa to combat the threat.	cause_general
In December and January, Tunisian security forces killed 12 Islamic extremists and captured 15 after uncovering a cell whose leaders had come from Algeria.	distant_historical
The Moroccan authorities are hunting as many as 10 would-be suicide bombers after three men blew themselves up on Tuesday.	cause_general
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, North Africa's most active terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the attacks.	cause_specific
A fourth man wearing explosives was killed before he could detonate them.	cause_general
One policeman was killed in the blasts.	cause_general
The men were being sought in connection with an explosion on March 11 in an Internet cafe in Casablanca in which another Islamic extremist blew himself up.	cause_general
Many terrorism experts say they suspect that those men are also linked to the Algerian group.	distant_evaluation
Attacks in Algeria have steadily increased since December, when a convoy of foreign construction workers was bombed outside the capital.	distant_historical
In February, the group claimed responsibility for detonating seven powerful car bombs outside police stations in six towns east of Algiers, killing six people.	cause_general
Those coordinated attacks alarmed officials because they involved more sophisticated remote detonation devices.	distant_evaluation
Last month, a convoy of oil workers was attacked in Ain Defla Province, west of Algiers, killing one Russian and three Ukrainians.	cause_general
Subsequent clashes with the Algerian Army killed nine soldiers and four fighters from Al Qaeda, Algerian officials said.	cause_general
The bombings on Wednesday confirmed fears that the violence would again enter the capital, which became a battleground during the horrific civil war that began in 1992 after the Algerian military canceled elections because an Islamist party was poised to win.	distant_evaluation
It was the deadliest attack in the capital in more than a decade, and followed warnings by officials in Europe and the United States that Algeria was becoming a center for terrorism that could threaten Europe and North America.	cause_general
''Although we know there are still terrorists outside of Algiers, we didn't believe they were capable of making this kind of attack so near the government headquarters,'' said Mahmoud Belhimeur, a senior editor of El Khabar, Algeria's largest-circulation Arabic newspaper.	distant_evaluation
The attacks began at around 10:45 a.m., when a suicide bomber drove an explosives-packed vehicle through the gate at the building housing the prime minister's office.	cause_specific
The bomb tore apart the front of the six-story building, shattered windows in nearby ministries and set several cars in the vicinity on fire.	main_consequence
Witnesses reported seeing rescue teams remove at least seven badly burned bodies from the rubble.	cause_general
''It was shocking, incredible,'' said Leila Benhamoud, who was at the scene shortly after the blasts.	distant_anecdotal
''Even in the park nearby, they found a burned body in the grass.''	distant_anecdotal
A second blast destroyed a police station in Bab Ezzouar, an eastern suburb.	main_consequence
Al Jazeera's bureau in Rabat, Morocco, reported that it had received a telephone call from a spokesman for Al Qaeda claiming responsibility for both attacks.	cause_specific
The caller said that the blasts were carried out by three Qaeda members driving trucks filled with explosives, and that the bombers had focused on three sites, including the government headquarters, in Algiers, the Interpol office in Algiers and a building housing the special police forces in Bab Ezzouar, Al Jazeera said.	cause_specific
However, there was no report of an attack at Interpol's Algiers offices.	cause_general
''This is a crime, a cowardly act,'' said Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem, speaking on national radio shortly after the explosion tore open the front of the building housing his office.	distant_evaluation
''We won't rest until every inch of Islamic land is liberated from foreign forces,'' the caller said in a recording of the phone call broadcast on Al Jazeera and carried on its Web site.	distant_expectations_consequences
He also called for the release of ''oppressed prisoners in Algeria, Morocco, Mauritania and elsewhere.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Pictures of the three men said to have carried out Wednesday's attacks were posted on an Islamist Web site, according to the SITE Institute, a United States group that monitors militants' messages.	cause_general
In the photos, each man was shown wearing a green turban with automatic rifles propped on the wall on each side of him.	cause_general
The men were identified as Muadh bin Jabal, Al Zubair Abu Sajda and Abu Dajjana.	cause_general
Mr. Sajda and Mr. bin Jabal were wearing suicide vests.	cause_general
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is divided into nine commands, each in charge of a geographic zone.	cause_general
Attacks in Zone II, which covers Algiers, are believed to be carried out under the command of Sadouai Abdelhamid, known as Yahia Abu el- Haithem, who was sentenced in absentia last month to 20 years in jail.	cause_general
The attacks follow a period of intensifying military action against the group in which one of its top leaders, Soheib Abu Abdul Rahman, was recently reported to have been killed.	cause_general
That the bombing occurred on the 11th of the month brings to mind the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States and the March 11, 2004, bombings in Madrid, and some terrorism experts suggested that the attacks added to the accumulating symbolism of that day of the month.	distant_evaluation
''It can only be described as cowardice and betrayal at a time when the Algerian people are asking for national reconciliation.''	distant_evaluation
''I would say that numerology plays a large part,'' said Magnus Ranstorp, a terrorism expert at the Swedish National Defense College in Stockholm.	distant_evaluation
''But the bigger issue is that you have May elections in both Algeria and Paris.''	distant_evaluation
French counterterrorism officials are particularly worried about Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb because of the difficulty in monitoring traffic between Algeria, a former colony, and France.	cause_general
Last year, the group singled out France as a target.	distant_historical
''We cannot stop the flow of people coming and going,'' Christophe Chaboud, France's antiterrorism coordinator, said last month.	distant_evaluation
''The idea is to single out potentially dangerous individuals, which means intense investigation.	distant_evaluation
They are difficult to identify through the huge flow.''	distant_evaluation
The bombing of the government building killed at least 12 people and wounded 118, according to APS, the country's official new agency.	main_consequence
The agency reported that 11 others were killed and 44 wounded in a second attack, at a police station on the road to the country's international airport, east of the capital, Algiers.	main
The terrorist group, originally called the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, was formed in 1998 as an offshoot of an Islamist group that had been fighting the government in a decade-long civil war.	distant_historical
Its numbers had been badly eroded in recent years by two government offers of amnesty and a subsequent manhunt by the Algerian security forces.	cause_general
For years after the 1993 robbery and killing of seven people at a fast-food restaurant about 30 miles northwest of here, thousands of leads failed to bring investigators the break needed to solve one of the most gruesome crimes in Illinois history.	distant_historical
The two shared a chicken dinner, then slipped on latex gloves and herded the couple who owned Brown's and five employees to the rear of the restaurant, then into the two refrigeration units, the authorities say.	distant_historical
Less than $2,000 was taken, they say.	distant_historical
Relatives notified the police when employees failed to arrive home on time.	distant_historical
Five victims were found in one walk-in cooler at the restaurant; two were in another.	distant_historical
Some had been shot several times; the throat of one was slit.	distant_historical
Mr. Luna, who had worked at the restaurant until a few months before the slayings, was one of 300 current and former employees interviewed and cleared not long after the killings.	distant_historical
But in 2002, a former girlfriend of Mr. Degorski came forward with details of the crime that investigators have said only someone linked directly to it could have known.	distant_historical
The woman told investigators she waited nine years because Mr. Degorski had threatened to kill her if she revealed what he told her about that night.	distant_historical
Mr. Degorski and Mr. Luna were arrested in May 2002.	distant_historical
Both pleaded not guilty; if convicted, however, they could face the death penalty.	distant_expectations_consequences
It was not until 2002 that the authorities announced they had arrested two men in the infamous Brown's Chicken Massacre, so called because the victims were shot or stabbed and left inside two walk-in refrigerators at Brown's Chicken and Pasta restaurant in the quiet, middle-class village of Palatine.	distant_historical
Both have been held without bail in Cook County Jail.	cause_general
Mr. Degorski will be tried after Mr. Luna.	cause_general
Among the evidence prosecutors are expected to present at Mr. Luna's trial is a videotaped confession he gave shortly after his arrest, a confession that he has since claimed was coerced.	distant_expectations_consequences
They are also likely to present DNA tests that they say link the remains of the suspects' partly eaten chicken dinner, retrieved from a trash can, to saliva samples gotten from the men a few weeks before their arrests.	distant_expectations_consequences
Defense lawyers have indicated they may try to discredit the DNA analysis by arguing that the test results were not conclusive and that the chicken dinner was mishandled.	distant_expectations_consequences
Judge Vincent M. Gaughan has barred lawyers from speaking to the news media outside the courtroom.	cause_general
Neither Mr. Luna's lead lawyer, Clarence L. Burch, nor the Cook County state's attorney, Richard A. Devine, who is prosecuting the case himself, would grant an interview for this article.	cause_general
A confession and forensic evidence often help prosecutors in cases in which the crime occurred many years earlier, said Leonard L. Cavise, a professor of criminal law at DePaul University College of Law, so Mr. Luna's statement and the DNA test results could present major hurdles for his legal team.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Brown's Chicken franchise never reopened, and the building was torn down in 2001.	distant_historical
There was talk for a time of erecting a memorial to the victims, but the idea faded, and now the corner is a parking lot for a Eurofresh Market.	cause_general
On Friday, more than 14 years after the killings, opening statements are expected at the trial of one of the accused, Juan A. Luna Jr., in Cook County Criminal Court here.	main
Some victims' families have said they are grateful that the case is nearing completion, however painful it is to recall the details after so many years.	distant_evaluation
Many have requested privacy as the trial begins, declining to speak to reporters.	cause_general
Jennifer Shilling, a daughter of the restaurant's owners, Richard and Lynn Ehlenfeldt, said she and her two sisters planned to attend the trial.	distant_expectations_consequences
''My sisters and I, as well as the families of our mother and father, have patiently waited for this trial and justice for more than 14 years,'' Ms. Shilling, a Wisconsin state representative from La Crosse, said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
''All of us expect that it will be an emotional and painful experience as we again relive the grief and anguish all of us have experienced.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Correction: April 14, 2007, Saturday A picture caption yesterday with an article about the trial of one man accused of killing seven people at a fast-food restaurant in Palatine, Ill., in 1993 misstated the date the picture was taken and referred incorrectly to the date the bodies were found.	error
The picture was taken on Jan. 9, 1993, not Jan. 8.	error
The bodies were found on Jan. 9, not two days earlier.	distant_historical
Those 14 years have tested the patience of the victims' families, of investigators and of Palatine's residents.	distant_evaluation
''Everybody feels like they want it to be over,'' said Mayor Rita Mullins, who was finishing her first term when the slayings occurred.	distant_evaluation
''They probably will never find the answer to 'why' -- why did this happen, why did it happen in Palatine -- but the answer will be as to 'who.'''	distant_expectations_consequences
During all the years the case was unsolved, Ms. Mullins said, ''people did look from side to side, wondering who could have done this.	distant_evaluation
It was the fear of the unknown.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Luna was 18 on Jan. 8, 1993, when, prosecutors say, he and 20-year-old James Degorski walked into Brown's around 9 p.m., intending to rob it after it closed.	distant_historical
PALU, Indonesia (Reuters) - The toll from an earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia soared to 832 confirmed dead on Sunday, with authorities fearing the numbers will climb as rescuers grappled to get aid to outlying communities cut off from communications and help.	main
(For a map of Sulawesi, click tmsnrt.rs/2OYa4YD)	error
“We haven’t received reports from the three other areas.	cause_general
Communication is still down, power is still out.	cause_general
We don’t know for sure what is the impact,” Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the National Disaster Mitigation Agency, told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
Along with Palu, 1,500 km (930 miles) northeast of Jakarta, these districts have a combined population of about 1.4 million.	cause_general
A video of the outskirts of Donggala shot on Sunday afternoon by the Indonesian Red Cross showed scenes of devastation, with houses flattened into piles of rubble and broken furniture.	cause_general
Smaller aftershocks from Friday’s quake continued to rumble through the area.	cause_general
Social worker Lian Gogali tweeted from the area that several villages on the west coast of Sulawesi were in desperate need of food, medicine and shelter and that road access was still limited.	distant_anecdotal
PLEDGE TO REBUILD	distant_expectations_consequences
Five foreigners - three French, one South Korean and one Malaysian - were among the missing, Nugroho said.	cause_general
Search and rescue workers evacuate an earthquake and tsunami survivor trapped in a collapsed restaurant, Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia September 30, 2018 in this photo taken by Antara Foto.	error
The 832 dead included people crushed in the quake and swept away by the tsunami.	cause_general
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said the death toll could rise into the thousands.	distant_expectations_consequences
Earlier President Widodo visited a housing complex flattened when the quake liquefied the soil it stood on, and called for patience.	distant_evaluation
“I know there are many problems that need to be solved in a short time, including communications,” he said.	distant_evaluation
The ruins would be rebuilt, he said, as aftershocks rattled the region 48 hours after the quake.	distant_expectations_consequences
Footage of the ruined city show a crumpled mess of houses, cars and trees mashed together by the quake, with rooftops and roads split and left at all angles.	cause_general
“There are estimated to be many victims in this area.	distant_expectations_consequences
Evacuation is difficult because many collapsed houses are buried in soil,” the National Disaster Mitigation Agency’s Nugroho said on Sunday evening.	distant_evaluation
Internal Affairs Minister Tjahjo Kumolo, asked about reports of looting on social media, said he had ordered authorities to help people get food and drink and businesses would be compensated.	distant_expectations_consequences
One video posted on YouTube showed people grabbing boxes of supplies from a truck.	cause_general
Antara Foto/Muhammad Adimaja/ via REUTERS	error
Television pictures showed scores of residents shouting “we’re hungry, we need food” as soldiers distributed rations from a truck in one neighborhood, while footage from elsewhere showed people making off with clothes and other items from a wrecked mall.	cause_general
State logistics agency chief Budi Waseso said it was preparing to send hundreds of tonnes of government rice stocks to Central Sulawesi areas affected by the disaster.	distant_expectations_consequences
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said the government had allocated 560 billion rupiah ($37.58 million) for disaster recovery, media reported.	cause_general
QUESTIONS ABOUT WARNINGS	distant_expectations_consequences
Indonesia, which sits on the seismically active Pacific Ring of Fire, is all too familiar with deadly earthquakes and tsunamis.	distant_evaluation
In 2004, a quake off Sumatra island triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean, killing 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
Questions are sure to be asked why warning systems set up after that disaster appear to have failed on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nugroho, bemoaning a fall in funding, said no tsunami buoys, one type of instrument used to detect the waves, in Indonesia had been operating since 2012.	cause_general
The meteorological and geophysics agency BMKG issued a tsunami warning after the quake but lifted it 34 minutes later, drawing criticism it had been too hasty.	distant_evaluation
But officials estimated the waves had hit while the warning was in force.	distant_evaluation
Dozens of people were reported to be trapped in the rubble of several hotels and a mall in the city of Palu, on Sulawesi island, which was hit by waves as high as six meters (20 feet) following the 7.5 magnitude earthquake on Friday.	cause_general
Hundreds of people had gathered for a festival on Palu’s beach when the water surged.	cause_general
A disaster official said the tsunami traveled across the sea at speeds of 800 kph (500 mph).	distant_evaluation
Video on social media showed water bearing whirls of debris rushing in as people shouted in alarm and scattered.	cause_general
Palu is at the head of a bay, about 10 km long and 2 km wide, which had “amplified” the wave as it was funneled toward the city, a geophysics agency official said.	distant_evaluation
The BMKG said its closest tidal gauge sensor, about 200 km (125 miles) from Palu, had only recorded an “insignificant” 6 cm (2.5 inches) wave.	distant_evaluation
Palu’s airport was damaged in the quake, but had reopened for limited commercial flights, authorities said.	cause_general
Neighbors including Australia, Thailand and China offered help and Pope Francis, speaking to thousands in St. Peter’s Square, said he was praying for the victims.	cause_general
The European Union has announced 1.5 million euros ($1.74 million) in immediate aid.	cause_general
Indonesia has the world’s largest Muslim population but also significant pockets of Christians, including on Sulawesi, which is one of the archipelago nation’s five main islands.	cause_general
A woman was pulled alive from the debris of the city’s Roa Roa Hotel, where up to 60 people were believed trapped.	cause_general
Hundreds of people gathered at the wrecked eight-storey Tatura Mall searching for loved ones.	cause_general
“Grieve for the people of Central Sulawesi, we all grieve together,” President Joko Widodo tweeted late on Sunday.	distant_evaluation
Most of the confirmed deaths were in Palu itself, and authorities are bracing for the toll to climb as connections with outlying areas are restored.	distant_expectations_consequences
Of particular concern is Donggala, a region of 300,000 people north of Palu and close to the epicenter of the quake, and two other districts, which has been cut off from communications since Friday.	distant_evaluation
RIKUZENTAKATA, Japan (Reuters) - When a massive earthquake struck in 2011, Japanese oyster fisherman Atsushi Fujita was working as usual by the sea.	distant_anecdotal
A common thread, though, is the construction of seawalls to replace breakwaters that were overwhelmed by the tsunami.	cause_specific
Some 395 km (245 miles) of walls have been built at a cost of 1.35 trillion yen ($12.74 billion).	cause_general
“The seawalls will halt tsunamis and prevent them from inundating the land,” said Hiroyasu Kawai, researcher at the Port and Airport Research Institute in Yokosuka, near Tokyo.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Even if the tsunami is bigger than the wall, the wall will delay flooding and guarantee more time for evacuation.”	distant_expectations_consequences
A bus is driven past a seawall in Yamada village, Iwate Prefecture, Japan, March 3, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon	error
ADJUSTING	cause_general
Many residents initially welcomed the idea of the walls but have become more critical over time.	main
Some say they were not consulted enough in the planning stages or that money spent on the walls has meant that other rebuilding, such as housing, has fallen behind.	main
Others worry the walls will damage tourism.	main
Soon after, a huge black wave slammed into his city and killed nearly 2,000 people.	distant_historical
“About 50 years ago, we came up here with the kids and enjoyed drives along the beautiful ocean and bays,” said Reiko Iijima, a tourist from central Japan, who was eating at an oyster restaurant across from the seawall.	distant_anecdotal
“Now, there’s not even a trace of that.”	distant_anecdotal
Part of a wall in the city of Kesennuma, further south, has windows in it - but these, too, draw complaints.	cause_general
“They’re a parody,” said Yuichiro Ito, who lost his home and younger brother in the tsunami.	distant_anecdotal
“It’s just to keep us happy with something we never wanted in the first place.”	distant_anecdotal
Fisherman Fujita said that while the tsunami had improved oyster farming in the area by stirring up sea floors and removing accumulated sludge, the sea walls could block natural water flows from the land and impact future production.	distant_anecdotal
Many municipalities said the giant walls had to be in place before permission could be granted for reconstruction elsewhere.	cause_general
“I can’t say things like ‘the wall should be lower’ or ‘we don’t need it,’” said Katsuhiro Hatakeyama, who has rebuilt his bed and breakfast business in the same location as before.	distant_anecdotal
“It’s thanks to the wall that I could rebuild, and now have a job.”	distant_anecdotal
Slideshow (25 Images)	error
Seven years on, Fujita and thousands like him along Japan’s northeast coast have rebuilt their lives alongside huge sea walls that experts say will protect them if another giant tsunami, which some see as inevitable in a seismically active nation like Japan, was to strike.	distant_expectations_consequences
But many find the wall hard to adjust to.	distant_evaluation
“Everyone here has lived with the sea, through generations,” said Sotaro Usui, head of a tuna supply company.	distant_anecdotal
“The wall keeps us apart - and that’s unbearable.”	distant_anecdotal
The 12.5-meter (41-ft) concrete wall replaced a 4-meter breakwater that was swamped in the March 11, 2011 disaster.	cause_specific
The earthquake and tsunami, which reached as high as 30 meters in some areas, killed nearly 18,000 people across Japan and triggered a nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima power plant.	distant_historical
“It feels like we’re in jail, even though we haven’t done anything bad,” the 52-year-old Fujita said.	distant_anecdotal
(Click reut.rs/2oT9XTa to see a picture package of the sea walls built after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami.)	error
Since the disaster, some towns have forbidden construction in flat areas nearest the coast and have relocated residents to higher land.	cause_general
Others, such as Rikuzentakata, have raised the level of their land by several meters before constructing new buildings.	cause_general
PALU, Indonesia (Reuters) - Hungry survivors of an earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia said on Wednesday they were scavenging for food in farms as President Joko Widodo made a second visit to the area to ramp up aid efforts five days after disaster struck.	cause_general
Nothing’s left,” Lim said over a crackling line.	distant_anecdotal
“We’re on our last legs.	distant_anecdotal
There’s no food, no water.”	distant_anecdotal
Related Coverage Indonesian disaster raises risks for President Widodo as he eyes re-election	error
In another part of Donggala district, which has a population of 300,000 people, Ahmad Derajat, said survivors were scavenging for food in fields and orchards.	distant_anecdotal
“What we’re relying on right now is food from farms and sharing whatever we find like sweet potatoes or bananas,” said Derajat whose house was swept away by the tsunami leaving a jumble of furniture, collapsed tin roofs and wooden beams.	distant_anecdotal
“Why aren’t they dropping aid by helicopter?” he asked.	distant_anecdotal
Aid worker Lian Gogali described a perilous situation in Donggala, which includes a string of cut-off, small towns along a coast road north of Palu close to the quake’s epicenter.	distant_anecdotal
“Everyone is desperate for food and water.	distant_anecdotal
There’s no food, water, or gasoline.	distant_anecdotal
The official death toll from the 7.5 magnitude quake that hit the west coast of Sulawesi island last Friday rose to 1,407, many killed by tsunami waves it triggered.	cause_general
The government is missing,” Gogali said, adding that her aid group had only been able to send in a trickle of rations by motorbike.	distant_anecdotal
Underlining a growing sense of urgency, President Widodo made his second visit to the disaster zone, putting on an orange hard hat to talk to rescue workers at a collapsed hotel in Palu.	main
“What I’ve observed after returning now is heavy equipment has arrived, logistics have started to arrive although it’s not at maximum yet, fuel has partly arrived,” Widodo told reporters.	distant_evaluation
‘PRESIDENT NOT HEARING’	distant_anecdotal
Widodo, who will seek re-election next year, called on Tuesday for reinforcements in the search for victims, saying everyone had to be found.	distant_evaluation
He repeated that on Wednesday, after inspecting what he called an “evacuation” effort at the Hotel Roa Roa, where he said some 30 people lay buried in the ruins.	distant_evaluation
Debris and a ship are seen after the earthquake and tsunami hit an area in Donggala, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia, October 3, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha	error
Yahdi Basma, a leader from a village south of Palu hoping to get his family on a cargo plane out, said Widodo had no idea of the extent of the suffering.	distant_anecdotal
“The president is not hearing about the remote areas, only about the tsunami and about Palu,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
(GRAPHIC: Catastrophe in Sulawesi - tmsnrt.rs/2OqQlUo)	error
“There are hundreds of people still buried under the mud in my village ...	distant_anecdotal
There is no aid whatsoever which is why we’re leaving.”	distant_anecdotal
At least seven cargo planes arrived at Palu airport earlier on Wednesday carrying tonnes of aid, some bedecked in the red and white national colors and stamped with the presidential office seal declaring: “Assistance from the President of Republic of Indonesia”.	cause_general
The quake brought down hotels, shopping malls and thousands of houses in Palu, while tsunami waves as high as six meters (20 feet) scoured its beachfront shortly afterwards.	cause_specific
About 1,700 houses in one neighborhood were swallowed up by ground liquefaction, which happens when soil shaken by an earthquake behaves like a liquid, and hundreds of people are believed to have perished, the disaster agency said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Indonesian Red Cross disaster responders said the village of Petobo, just south of Palu, which was home to almost 500 people, had been “wiped off the map”.	distant_evaluation
“They are finding devastation and tragedy everywhere,” Iris van Deinse, of International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Nearby, rescue workers, some using an excavator, were searching for 52 children missing since liquefaction destroyed their bible study camp.	cause_general
Bodies of 35 of the children have been found.	cause_general
Aircraft, tents, water treatment facilities and generators were the main needs for survivors including more than 70,000 displaced people, according to the national disaster mitigation agency spokesman.	distant_evaluation
But officials fear the toll could soar, as most of the confirmed dead have come from Palu, a small city 1,500 km (930 miles) northeast of Jakarta, and losses in remote areas remain unknown, as communications are down, and bridges and roads have been destroyed or blocked by landslides.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (31 Images)	error
Sitting on the seismically active Pacific Ring of Fire, Indonesia is one of the world’s most vulnerable countries to quakes and tsunamis.	distant_evaluation
A quake in 2004 triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean that killed 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
Adding to Sulawesi’s woes, the Soputan volcano in the north of the island, 600 km (375 miles) northeast of Palu, erupted on Wednesday but there were no reports of casualties or damage.	cause_general
National disaster mitigation agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said most of the aid effort had been concentrated in Palu, where electricity supply has yet to be restored.	distant_evaluation
But rescue workers have begun to reach more remote areas in a disaster zone that encompasses 1.4 million people.	distant_evaluation
Johnny Lim, a restaurant owner reached by telephone in Donggala town, said he was surviving on coconuts.	distant_anecdotal
“It’s a zombie town.	distant_anecdotal
Everything’s destroyed.	distant_anecdotal
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (Reuters) - The U.S. region most vulnerable to tsunamis - the massive waves of water unleashed by undersea earthquakes - is dangerously under-prepared, experts and officials in Oregon and Washington state said after a magnitude 7.9 earthquake this week.	main
A tsunami could send a wall of water 50 feet (15 meters) high crashing onto the coast, or a wave 16 feet (5 meters) high into Seattle, the state’s largest city, she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“If there’s the real thing and people don’t have evacuation routes and plans, they won’t know where to get to safety and it could be life-threatening,” she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In neighboring Oregon, officials have created evacuation plans and public awareness campaigns to help people prepare.	cause_general
But the state has not done enough to stop people from building in potential danger zones, said Jay Wilson, former chairman of the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission.	main
“There are about 30,000 people who live in the tsunami zones,” Wilson said.	cause_general
“If we do everything right, they’re going to run up to the top of the hill.	main
And then they’re all going to be permanently displaced.”	main
DEADLY THREAT	distant_expectations_consequences
Parts of Oregon and far northern California have up to a 37 percent chance of a tsunami from a rupture of the Cascadia subduction zone in the next 50 years, said Chris Goldfinger, a tsunami and earthquake expert with the Oregon State University.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tsunamis are generally produced when tectonic plates move against each other under the ocean in subduction zones, displacing ocean water through powerful quakes.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: A tsunami sign is shown along the coastal highway in Cardiff, California, U.S., January 23, 2018.	error
They have a deadly history.	distant_evaluation
The 2011 quake and tsunami in Japan killed up to 18,000 people and wrecked Japan’s Fukushima nuclear plant, causing the worst meltdown since the Chernobyl disaster in the former Soviet Union.	distant_historical
The 2004 Asian tsunami killed 226,000 people.	distant_historical
A big tsunami on the Oregon coast could kill up to 10,000 people, said Althea Rizzo, the state’s geologic hazards program coordinator.	distant_expectations_consequences
In recent years, Oregon has instituted practice drills at schools and hospitals, provided evacuation materials to tourists in their hotel rooms and in some areas painted blue evacuation lines to higher ground on roads and paths, Rizzo said.	cause_general
The city of Seaside, Oregon, voted in 2016 to fund a bond measure to move its schools out of the inundation zone.	distant_historical
There are statewide restrictions on building essential facilities like hospitals in tsunami zones.	cause_general
But updated maps showing where those zones are located have not been incorporated into the law, meaning the restrictions might not apply in areas that are now known to be dangerous, Wilson said.	main
“In the Northwest our biggest problem is not getting the word out, it’s that our built infrastructure is very vulnerable,” said Goldfinger.	main
“Buildings within a tsunami zone are pretty much going to be destroyed.”	main
REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo	error
California is considering adopting international zoning standards for tsunami zone construction, as well as “blue line” evacuation routes like those in Oregon, said Rick Wilson, senior engineering geologist for the California Geological Survey.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
In Manzanita on the Oregon coast, resident Kerry Driscoll said she has an evacuation plan and the cabins at the beachside resort where she works are equipped with pamphlets telling tourists how to prepare.	distant_anecdotal
But tsunamis can come with little warning, and she knows it might be hard to get out.	distant_anecdotal
“If we don’t have major advance warning I don’t think there’s much that we can do,” Driscoll said.	distant_anecdotal
“I can’t see running from giant tidal waves.”	distant_anecdotal
The quake that struck in the Gulf of Alaska late Monday, triggering a tsunami warning for Alaska and a tsunami watch for the U.S. West Coast, rekindled concerns that a seismic sea wave along the northwest coast could kill, injure or displace tens of thousands of people and cause billions of dollars in damage.	cause_specific
In this week’s quake, the warnings and watches were quickly lifted, and there was no damage from the slight change it caused in the ocean.	cause_general
But experts worry that in some parts of the region there is too little information about where tsunamis might occur, and in others too much infrastructure built in locations known to face a threat.	main
“There’s still a lot that needs to be done,” said Corina Forson, Washington’s chief hazards geologist.	distant_evaluation
Scientists in the state have pinpointed just half the locations where a destructive tsunami triggered by the Cascadia subduction zone off the northwest coast might come ashore, and about 10 percent of sites that might be hit by a wave emanating from the Seattle fault zone, Forson said.	main
She called the lack of information dangerous.	main
ANCHORAGE (Reuters) - Tsunami alerts were lifted on Tuesday for the U.S. West Coast and western Canada after a magnitude-7.9 earthquake struck in the Gulf of Alaska, sending the state’s coastal residents inland to seek shelter from possible tidal waves.	main
“Spirits are high.”	distant_anecdotal
Long lines of traffic formed in coastal communities including Homer and Seward, Alaska, residents said on social media.	distant_evaluation
In Homer, a few hundred cars were packed into its high school parking lot.	cause_general
Shawn Biessel, a 32-year-old park ranger, and his mother were in the lot, a few hundred feet above sea level.	distant_anecdotal
“It was a really obvious, pretty strong, long quake.	distant_anecdotal
A good rumbler,” Biessel said in a phone interview.	distant_anecdotal
“It went on for a solid minute and after a while we thought we should get outside.”	distant_anecdotal
Police drove through Biessel’s neighborhood with flashing lights to alert residents to evacuate, Biessel said.	distant_anecdotal
San Francisco briefly warned residents within three blocks of the Pacific Ocean or five blocks of San Francisco Bay to prepare to evacuate.	distant_expectations_consequences
That warning was later lifted.	cause_general
A tsunami sign is shown along the coastal highway in Cardiff, California, U.S., January 23, 2018.	error
Earthquakes of similar magnitude are not uncommon in Alaska, which is seismically active.	distant_evaluation
The state has recorded 11 tremors with a magnitude of 7 or greater within 373 miles (600 km) of Tuesday’s quake over the past century, according to Zachary Reeves, a USGS seismologist in Golden, Colorado.	cause_general
The largest U.S. earthquake ever recorded was a magnitude-9.2 temblor in Alaska in March 1964, causing tidal waves of more than 100 feet (30 m) high that killed 131 people.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Mike Blake	error
In Alaska, people packed into high schools and other evacuation centers after the quake hit shortly after midnight local time (0900 GMT).	cause_general
Officials had warned residents as far south as San Francisco to be ready to evacuate coastal areas but by 5:15 a.m. PST (1315 GMT) the U.S. National Weather Service had lifted all tsunami advisories, watches and warnings for California, Oregon Washington and Alaska.	distant_expectations_consequences
Canadian officials lifted one for coastal British Colombia.	cause_general
In Alaska, residents gathered in shelters on Kodiak Island, the closest land point to the temblor, around 160 miles (250 km) southeast of Chiniak, Alaska, at a depth of 25 km - considered shallow but with broader damage - according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS).	cause_general
There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage from the quake, which was initially measured at magnitude 8.2.	cause_general
“People are fine,” said Neil Hecht, assistant principal of Kodiak High School, which was sheltering a few hundred people.	distant_anecdotal
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A magnitude 6.9 earthquake struck off the southern coast of Papua New Guinea’s New Britain island on Friday, initially triggering a tsunami warning for surrounding coastlines, but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage.	main
Rabaul lies in the shadow of Mount Tavurvur, an active volcano that destroyed the town in 1994 during a severe eruption.	cause_general
The latest quake came as Papua New Guinea struggles to get aid to survivors of the Feb. 26 quake, which flattened whole villages and spoiled water supplies on the country’s main island.	cause_general
The impoverished country is also missing its largest revenue earner since the quake forced a shutdown of Exxon Mobil Corp’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) project, which has annual sales of $3 billion at current LNG prices.	main_consequence
The company is still assessing quake damage at its facilities.	main_consequence
The shallow quake struck close to the coast, around 100 miles (162 km) southwest of Rabaul, a much more remote region than the country’s mountainous mainland highlands where a magnitude 7.5 tremor struck on Feb. 26, killing 100 people.	cause_general
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre (PTWC) issued a threat warning for the country’s coastline located within 300 km of the quake’s epicenter, but later advised that the threat had passed.	main_consequence
Dellie Minding, a receptionist at the Rabaul Hotel in the east of New Britain, around 20 minutes from the coast, told Reuters that the earthquake was felt, with many guests running outside, but there was no damage.	distant_anecdotal
At the Rapopo Plantation Resort on the coast, receptionist May Dovon said she had not heard of any casualties or damage.	distant_anecdotal
“We felt the earthquake, everything was moving so we went out of the building,” Dovon told Reuters.	distant_anecdotal
“Nothing was damaged.”	distant_anecdotal
Australian authorities said there was no threat to the Australian coastline from the quake, which was initially reported as a magnitude 7.2.	distant_evaluation
Quakes are common in Papua New Guinea, which sits on the Pacific’s “Ring of Fire”, a hotspot for seismic activity due to friction between tectonic plates.	distant_evaluation
People search through debris in a residential area following an earthquake and tsunami in Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia September 30, 2018 in this photo taken by Antara Foto.	error
Antara Foto/Darwin Fatir/via REUTERS	error
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia will accept international help for disaster response and relief after a major earthquake and tsunami hit Sulawesi island, killing at least 832 people, the head of the Indonesian investment board said on Twitter on Monday.	main
President Joko Widodo agreed to accept international help on Sunday night, Thomas Lembong said.	main
Lembong said he would coordinate private sector help from around the world.	main
Authorities scrambled to get food, aid and equipment into Sulawesi on Monday as the death toll appeared certain to rise, three days after the 7.5 magnitude quake and tsunami hit the island.	cause_general
Countries such as Thailand and Australia have already offered to help.	cause_general
BADDAGANA, Sri Lanka (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - On the surface, Sri Lanka’s capital Colombo looks like any other fast-growing South Asian city, with buildings stretching as far as the eye can see and skyscrapers rearing up along its coast.	cause_general
In November 2010, heavy rains brought the city to a standstill for a week, causing damage worth as much as $100 million, said World Bank consultant Nadeera Rajapakse Rubaroe.	distant_historical
FAST-SHRINKING WETLANDS	cause_general
The $321-million Metro Colombo Urban Development Project - about two-thirds of it funded by the World Bank - aims to strengthen flood protection and urban planning.	main
Under the plan, what is left of the city’s wetlands are being revived to retain excess water.	main
Two such areas have been developed in the past three years near a lake close to the city’s parliament building in the eastern suburbs of Baddagana and Diyasaru Thalawathugoda.	distant_historical
Wijayaratne said at least 10 more locations around the lake can be developed into similar parkland.	distant_expectations_consequences
There is no time to lose, say experts.	distant_evaluation
“In terms of flood protection and mitigation, the wetlands in Colombo play an indispensable role, and are at an absolutely critical threshold,” the World Bank’s Rubaroe said.	distant_evaluation
The city has been losing its wetlands at an alarming rate, she added.	cause_general
Only about 17 percent of Colombo’s territory consists of wetlands that have not been encroached on, covering some 20 square km combined.	cause_general
But beneath the concrete, Colombo hides a wilder and wetter past.	cause_general
That surface area can retain close to 40 percent of the rainfall the area receives annually - the equivalent of 27,000 Olympic swimming pools of water.	cause_general
If Colombo were to lose all its wetlands, flooding would shave off about 1 percent of its annual gross domestic product of some $53 billion, according to a World Bank study.	distant_expectations_consequences
Projections by the bank and the government show that without the wetlands, major floods like the one in 2010 – which rose as high as 5 meters (16 ft) in some areas - could be 1.8 meters higher.	distant_expectations_consequences
PEOPLE’S PARKS	distant_evaluation
To be successful, experts say city communities must have a say in - and gain from - the rehabilitation of the wetlands.	distant_evaluation
“People have to feel part and parcel of the project - they need to experience that these projects make very real changes to their lives,” said Sameera Premarathana, manager at Baddagana Park, which offers a nature trail for the public.	distant_evaluation
The plan aims to develop the revivable wetlands around the parliament lake so that they offer recreational, tourist and other benefits, rather than leaving the land unused.	cause_general
Premarathana said that when Baddagana Park first opened, local people showed little interest, and some even blamed the park for adding to floods in the area.	distant_evaluation
But after the incidence of flooding reduced to almost nothing, they started to grasp the importance of the park, its manager said.	distant_evaluation
Local residents have also earned money from running the car park and providing refreshments for visitors, who number some 7,000 a month.	cause_general
Before it became the nerve center of Sri Lankan politics and business, the city was a region dotted with wetlands and about 30 km (19 miles) of canals that helped absorb and disperse the massive rains that come in from the Indian Ocean.	distant_historical
The green space has become popular with school children on educational tours, with some joining the park conservation society.	cause_general
Premarathana noted the full tourist potential of Colombo’s wetlands has been assessed at about 2 billion rupees ($12.7 million) per year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Wijayaratne of the Land Reclamation and Development Corporation said the wetland restoration projects would incorporate leisure and educational activities while ensuring rainwater run-off can still flow freely through the area.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The wellbeing of people in Colombo - especially in terms of flood protection - depends on its existing wetlands, and they need to be preserved and used wisely (and) sustainably as part and parcel of city development,” said Rubaroe.	distant_evaluation
In the past four decades, as the island adopted an aggressive development policy, its natural flood protection systems were built over, both by authorized and informal construction.	cause_general
“Flash flooding is now a frequent thing,” said N. S. Wijayaratne, deputy general manager for wetlands at the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation, a government body.	distant_evaluation
Experts say Colombo’s long-neglected wetlands could help alleviate worsening floods - and are set to make a comeback as a key pillar of a major flood prevention program.	distant_expectations_consequences
Floods occurred in 2016 and 2017 during the monsoon, and smaller deluges have happened this year even before the onset of the monsoon, including in the past few days.	cause_specific
Weather patterns have changed drastically since the 1970s, with rains becoming shorter but more intense, as the planet has warmed.	cause_specific
That shift has raised the risk of flooding in the Colombo Metropolitan Area, home to about a quarter of the island nation’s population of 21 million.	distant_expectations_consequences
TOKYO (Reuters) - A powerful typhoon was expected to make landfall in west Japan on Thursday, raising the risk of more hardship for a region battered by deadly floods in July, and prompting authorities to issue evacuation advisories for more than 60,000 people.	main
Central Japan, including the industrial region of Nagoya, could see up to 600 mm of rain in the same period, the agency said.	main
At least three municipalities on Shikoku issued evacuation advisories for their 65,000 residents and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged residents to take precautionary measures early.	main_consequence
Japan has been hit by various extreme weather since the beginning of July with record-breaking heat and the devastating floods and landslides in the west that killed more than 200 people.	cause_general
“When evacuation advisories are released, please realize that this applies to you personally and take immediate action to reach higher ground, evacuate to safety and take action to protect your life,” said Hidehiko Yuzaki, governor of Okayama prefecture, one of the areas hit hardest by last month’s floods.	cause_general
The center of Typhoon Cimaron was about 60 km (37 miles) south of Shikoku, the smallest of Japan’s four main islands, at 6 p.m. (0900 GMT) and heading north.	cause_specific
It was likely to cut across western Japan on Thursday evening, the Japan Meteorological Agency said.	main
Heavy rains and waves lashed the south eastern coast of Shikoku, according to a live stream on public broadcaster NHK’s web site.	cause_specific
Cities in neighboring Osaka and Okayama prefectures issued evacuation advisories for around 85,000 residents, according to NHK.	main_consequence
As a precaution, a bullet train service was suspended between Osaka and Hiroshima, western Japan, NHK said.	main_consequence
“There will be heavy rain in areas that have yet to fully recover,” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said at a meeting of the government’s disaster response headquarters.	main
“In order to prevent a secondary disaster, do not be afraid of false alarms and evacuate early and do everything you can (to protect yourself),” he added.	cause_general
Shikoku would likely see as much as 800 mm (32 inches) of rain in the 24 hours to noon on Friday.	main
HANOI (Reuters) - Vietnam has warned of floods and landslides triggered by heavy rains after tropical storm Son Tinh made landfall in northern coastal areas, although no casualties were reported on Thursday.	main
On Wednesday, a company safety official had said it had no plan to suspend operations.	distant_evaluation
A long coastline makes Vietnam prone to destructive storms and flooding, with 389 people last year in natural disasters such as floods and landslides, the General Statistics Office said.	distant_historical
Son Tinh weakened to a tropical low pressure event by the time it reached Vietnam late on Wednesday, curbing fears of immediate and widespread damage, but raising concerns of flooding.	cause_specific
“Heavy rain is forecast to continue in northern and central provinces, and threatens to cause flash floods and landslides in Hoa Binh, Son La, Lai Chau and Lang Son provinces,” the national weather forecaster said.	main
The Southeast Asian country had ordered vessels back to port and prepared evacuation plans ahead of the storm, which soaked parts of the Philippines on Tuesday.	cause_general
Heavy rain of up to 350 mm (13.8 inches) flooded some coastal provinces, affecting nearly 64,000 hectares of rice and 3,200 hectares of cash crops on Thursday, the government’s disaster management agency said.	cause_general
Floods limited road access to many parts of Nghe An province, 300 km (186 miles) south of Hanoi, state media said.	cause_general
Last month heavy rains triggered flash floods and landslides that killed 24 people in the remote and mountainous northern provinces of Lai Chau and Ha Giang.	cause_general
Nghi Son refinery, not far from Son Tinh’s path, was spared.	cause_general
KATOWICE, Poland (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The devastation caused by powerful storms is a growing threat to both poor and rich nations, propelling Caribbean islands to the top of a global index of countries most severely affected by weather disasters last year, researchers said on Tuesday.	main
“Climate events are contributing to greater humanitarian problems than we have seen in the past,” said Jens Laerke, a spokesman for OCHA.	distant_evaluation
“This is something the world has not yet adapted fully to.”	distant_evaluation
As hurricanes and tropical cyclones intensify in strength, they are particularly hurting poor nations that are unprepared for the threat, researchers said on the sidelines of U.N. climate talks in Poland.	main
In the tiny island country of Dominica, Maria caused losses equal to more than twice its gross domestic product, damaging or destroying about 90 percent of housing.	distant_historical
Lloyd Pascal, a Dominican climate negotiator whose home has yet to be fully repaired after being hit by the storm, urged the U.N. talks to pay more attention to “weaker countries”.	distant_evaluation
Dominica, with 72,000 people, lacks the ability to prepare for the increasingly severe weather it is suffering, he said.	distant_evaluation
Even though storm warnings are received, the state does not have resources to evacuate people into shelters, he said, nor understand clearly how heavy rainfall will boost river levels.	distant_evaluation
“We are just not prepared to do that kind of work,” he told reporters.	distant_evaluation
“We are like sitting ducks.”	distant_evaluation
But rich countries, including the United States, also are seeing clearer climate impacts, and need to step up efforts to keep their people safe, Germanwatch said.	cause_general
The U.S. territory of Puerto Rico was ranked as the hardest-hit and the island of Dominica came in third place after both were battered by Hurricane Maria last September, according to an annual climate risk index from Germanwatch, an environmental policy group.	distant_historical
“Effective climate protection, as well as increasing resilience, is... in the self-interest of these countries,” Eckstein said.	distant_evaluation
The Germanwatch index highlighted other types of weather-related damage as well, from unusually heavy rainfall to landslides.	cause_general
Sri Lanka, the second most-affected country in 2017, saw dramatic floods that year that killed 200 people and left hundreds of thousands homeless.	distant_historical
The U.N. climate negotiations should drum up more support for the poorest countries like Nepal, Vietnam, Sierra Leone and Madagascar to deal with rising losses linked to climate change, Germanwatch said.	distant_evaluation
All four of those countries figured in the index’s top 10 of nations most affected by weather disasters in 2017.	distant_evaluation
“They need predictable and reliable financial support for dealing with climate-induced loss and damage,” Eckstein said.	distant_evaluation
Five years ago, the U.N. climate talks set up a mechanism to better understand the damage that now will be unavoidable as a result of the 1 degree Celsius hike in global temperatures that has already occurred.	cause_general
The mechanism also seeks to find ways to deal with the consequences as the world warms further.	cause_general
But industrialized countries - which have historically emitted the most climate-changing emissions - have refused to pay compensation to those who are less to blame for global warming yet find themselves on the frontline of impacts.	cause_general
Instead they are providing access to insurance.	cause_general
The United States ranked 12th in the 2017 index, with 389 fatalities and nearly $175 billion in losses from extreme weather.	distant_historical
At the Dec. 2-14 talks in Poland, arguments are expected over how progress on dealing with “loss and damage” should be assessed in 2023 when countries measure up their climate action against the goals of the Paris climate accord.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Recent storms with intensity levels never seen before have had disastrous impacts,” said the index’s lead author David Eckstein.	distant_evaluation
Such weather disasters are likely to worsen further in coming years, the United Nations’ humanitarian agency warned on Tuesday, creating significant new humanitarian needs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Floods, storms and droughts all are expected to strengthen, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said in its “Global Humanitarian Overview 2019” report.	distant_expectations_consequences
It cited World Bank data predicting 140 million people could be internally displaced by 2050 as a result of global warming.	distant_expectations_consequences
Among the countries being significantly hit by climate-linked extreme weather is the United States, whose President Donald Trump is one of the most prominent skeptics of man-made climate change, the agency said.	cause_general
Hurricanes and storms in the United States and Caribbean caused more than $220 billion dollars worth of damage last year, representing nearly two thirds of global losses caused by natural disasters in 2017, OCHA said.	distant_historical
(Reuters) - When Hurricane Michael barreled into the Florida Panhandle on Wednesday with 155-mph (249-kph) sustained winds, it defied forecasts made just two days beforehand, its wind speeds doubling since Monday and coming in just short of the highest category of intensity.	main
“Since we’ve got warm temperatures in the Gulf now, a hurricane has a much better chance to reach its maximum possible intensity, which appears to be what Michael is doing,” she said.	cause_specific
In some cases, high-altitude winds can put a cap on a storm’s ability to draw power from moist sea air.	cause_general
But in Michael’s case, that brake was not in place.	cause_general
Rapid intensification happens about 5 percent of the time and is difficult to predict.	cause_general
Last year, in the Atlantic basin, forecasters correctly forecast six of 39 such instances, according to Michael Brennan, branch chief of the hurricane specialist unit at the U.S. National Hurricane Center.	distant_historical
The NHC said last year it failed to adequately predict the rapid intensification of Hurricane Matthew in 2016 to a Category 5 storm with maximum sustained winds of 165 mph (270 kph).	distant_historical
Matthew was directly responsible for 585 deaths, including more than 500 people in Haiti, the NHC said.	distant_historical
While the science of tracking a storm relies heavily on data about conditions on its periphery, predicting intensity relies on measuring what is happening in the middle of it.	cause_general
Typically, that means flying a hurricane hunter aircraft inside the storm, recording wind speeds from a weather buoy as a storm passes overhead or relying on satellites that may fly over once every other day.	cause_general
Collecting consistent data through the storm is difficult and limits the ability to predict intensity, hurricane experts have said.	cause_general
Palm trees are seen during Hurricane Michael in Panama City Beach, Florida, U.S. October 10, 2018.	error
In recent storms that have intensified quickly, the phenomenon has been more exaggerated than in the past, according to a recent research paper co-authored by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory researcher Karthik Balaguru.	cause_general
“At the end of the day, deep warm water, what we call ocean heat content, that’s really the fuel supply for these storms,” said J. Marshall Shepherd, director of the atmospheric sciences program at the University of Georgia.	cause_specific
REUTERS/Jonathan Bachman	error
Michael was not the only tropical cyclone in recent years to undergo what scientists refer to as “rapid intensification,” defined as an acceleration of wind speeds of at least 35 mph (56 kph) in 24 hours or less.	main
The phenomenon has become more serious as sea waters have warmed with climate change.	cause_specific
“It is most likely that the very warm water in the Gulf ... is likely contributing to the intensity and the intensification that we have seen,” said Jim Kossin, an atmospheric scientist with the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.	cause_specific
Rapid intensification is dangerous because it gives businesses, industry and people on the ground less time to take appropriate precautions ahead of hurricanes like Michael that hit shore with far more furious winds than originally expected.	cause_general
Several factors can contribute, but warmer waters increase the potential for a storm becoming stronger, climate scientists have said.	cause_specific
Climate change means that warmer ocean temperatures are being seen more often, said Jennie Evans, a professor of Meteorology at Pennsylvania State University.	cause_specific
PANAMA CITY BEACH, Fla. (Reuters) - A week after Hurricane Michael battered Florida’s Gulf Coast with record fury, the full extent of devastation and loss of life remained unclear on Wednesday, as disruptions to phone, power and transportation systems hindered the disaster recovery.	main
He said the search had been hampered by spotty cell phone service in the devastated area, though authorities were making progress in restoring communications.	main
High volumes of missing persons reports are not uncommon in the days following a natural disaster because so many survivors fail to check in with loved ones right away or lack the means to do so because of phone and power outages, authorities said.	distant_evaluation
Nevertheless, at least 48,000 Florida residents in the 12 counties hardest hit by Hurricane Michael had registered for disaster assistance as of Wednesday with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA spokesman Ruben Brown told Reuters.	cause_general
That number represents about 7 percent of the population of the 12 counties designated by President Donald Trump’s federal disaster declaration as eligible for FEMA aid to individuals and households.	cause_general
Nearly a third, or more than 15,000 people, reported storm damage to their homes when they signed up with FEMA, though the full scope of property losses remained to be seen, Brown said.	cause_general
As of Wednesday, 286 families left homeless by the storm in Bay County, at the epicenter of the disaster, were approved for FEMA-furnished hotel vouchers, he said.	cause_general
Florida accounted for 20 of the known fatalities attributed to Hurricane Michael, with six more in Virginia, three in North Carolina and one in Georgia, according to a Reuters tally of reports from county officials along the path of the storm.	cause_general
Officials said medical examiners were determining whether another four deaths in Florida were storm-related.	cause_general
As of Tuesday, FEMA had distributed about 4.5 million meals, more than 5 million liters of water and 9 million infant-and-toddler kits, Brown said.	cause_general
The state government was distributing ice, water and about 3 million ready-to-eat meals, Governor Rick Scott’s office said.	cause_general
Damage caused by Hurricane Michael is seen in Mexico Beach, Florida, U.S., October 16, 2018.	error
Slideshow (11 Images)	error
Nearly 155,000 homes and businesses remained without power in the U.S. Southeast, with residents of battered coastal towns forced to cook on fires and barbecue grills.	cause_general
At least 70 percent of customers in four mainly rural Florida Panhandle counties were without electricity on Wednesday.	cause_general
On Tuesday, the federal government said that 61.5 percent of cell sites remained out of service in Bay County.	cause_general
Officials said it could be weeks before power returns to some.	distant_expectations_consequences
Countless numbers of people in the region’s backcountry have struggled for days without running water or sanitation, awaiting help from authorities.	cause_general
Some have been camping in tents with the belongings they were able to salvage.	cause_general
REUTERS/Terray Sylvester	error
At least 30 people were killed, according to local authorities, when Michael plowed ashore as one of the fiercest hurricanes on record to strike the U.S. mainland, pulverizing a cluster of seaside towns along Florida’s northwestern Panhandle region.	cause_specific
Seven days later search crews continued combing through the wreckage of demolished neighborhoods looking for any sign of additional victims in Panama City Beach, Mexico Beach and Port St. Joe, the communities closest to the storm’s landfall.	main
Distribution of food and water to storm-stricken residents farther inland has been slowed by communication outages and storm-shattered roads blocked by toppled trees, power lines and other debris.	main
Florida officials have not said how many people may be missing.	cause_general
Teams of volunteers with the Houston-based CrowdSource Rescue organization were trying to reach more than 700 Florida residents reported unaccounted for by worried relatives and friends, said Matthew Marchetti, the organization’s co-founder.	cause_general
Most of that number, down from 2,100 people the group was trying to locate in the immediate aftermath of the storm, are from Panama City and many of them are elderly, disabled, impoverished or living alone, Marchetti said.	cause_general
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks in weather-sensitive industries reacted as Hurricane Florence moved closer to the U.S. East Coast on Monday.	main
Here is a summary of how shares are performing as Hurricane Florence approaches:	cause_general
BUILDING SUPPLIES	cause_general
Hurricane Florence had a mixed effect on building products companies.	distant_evaluation
Shares of roofing and insulation companies climbed, while those of cement companies fell.	main
On Monday, shares of Beacon Roofing rose 8.2 percent, their biggest one-day percentage jump in more than a year.	main
Owens Corning shares rose 3.7 percent and were the top gainers on the PHLX Housing Index .HGX.	main
Shares of generator maker Generac Holdings Inc (GNRC.N) also touched a four-year high and were last up 5.6 percent.	main
But Summit Materials Inc (SUM.N) shares fell 8.1 percent after the cement and concrete supplier warned of adverse weather, including Hurricane Florence, hurting performance in several of its markets.	main
The shares of peer companies Martin Marietta Materials Inc (MLM.N), Vulcan Materials Co (VMC.N) and Eagle Materials Inc (EXP.N) also declined between 2 percent and 3.5 percent.	main
HOME IMPROVEMENT	cause_general
A photo taken from the International Space Station by astronaut Ricky Arnold shows Hurricane Florence over the Atlantic Ocean in the early morning hours of September 6, 2018.	error
Shares of Lowe’s Companies Inc (LOW.N) and Home Depot hit record highs on Monday.	main
Lowe’s shares were last trading 2.2 percent higher, while Home Depot shares were up 2.6 percent.	main
During the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season, Home Depot shares rose 16.3 percent.	distant_historical
But Lowe’s shares only rose 4.7 percent during that period, lagging the S&P 500, as the chain struggled to compete with Home Depot.	distant_historical
INSURANCE	cause_general
Allstate shares fell 1.9 percent on Monday.	main
The insurer had a 10.5 percent market share in South Carolina and a 6.6 percent market share in North Carolina, according to Sandler O’Neill.	cause_specific
Shares of Travelers Companies Inc (TRV.N), Progressive Corp (PGR.N) and American International Group Inc (AIG.N) declined between 1 percent and 2 percent.	main
CAR RENTAL	cause_general
Shares of Hertz Global Holdings Inc (HTZ.N) and Avis Budget Group Inc (CAR.O) surged during much of the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season on investors’ anticipation of increased demand.	distant_historical
Courtesy @astro_ricky/NASA/Handout via REUTERS	error
Hertz shares climbed 156.2 percent between June and early November, while Avis shares rose 80.1 percent.	distant_historical
On Monday, Hertz shares rose 4.4 percent and Avis shares added 2.7 percent.	main
FREIGHT	cause_general
In 2017 between June 1 and Dec. 1, shares of USA Truck Inc (USAK.O) soared 172.9 percent, while shares of XPO Logistics Inc (XPO.N) and Old Dominion Freight Line Inc (ODFL.O) climbed more than 40 percent.	distant_historical
J B Hunt Transport Services (JBHT.O) shares rose 26.7 percent over the same period.	distant_historical
On Monday, XPO Logistics shares rose 5.4 percent.	main
USA Truck shares advanced 3.8 percent, J B Hunt gained 3.7 percent and Old Dominion added 1.6 percent.	main
HOTELS	cause_general
Shares of hotel operators were little changed on Monday.	main
They had gained during the 2017 hurricane season as demand from guests displaced by hurricanes outweighed the hit from storm damage.	distant_historical
Shares of roofing and insulation products companies including Beacon Roofing Supply Inc (BECN.O) and Owens Corning (OC.N) rose, while insurers such as Allstate Corp (ALL.N) tumbled.	main
From June 1 to Dec. 1, 2017, shares of Hyatt Hotels Corp (H.N) jumped 25.8 percent.	distant_historical
Shares of Marriott International Inc (MAR.O), Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc (HLT.N) and Choice Hotels International Inc (CHH.N) rose up to 18.9 percent.	distant_historical
Florence, the first major hurricane to threaten the eastern United States this year, was forecast to hit the coast of North Carolina or South Carolina on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
North Carolina ordered residents to evacuate the state’s Outer Banks barrier islands, and the governors of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina declared states of emergency.	cause_general
The Atlantic hurricane season, which typically runs from June to November, caused more than $250 billion worth of damage in the United States in 2017.	distant_historical
But several industries benefited.	cause_general
Car rental and hotel companies saw an influx of customers, while freight companies commanded higher prices as capacity tightened due to increased demand for supplies in areas struck by hurricanes.	main
PANAMA CITY, Fla. (Reuters) - Hurricane Michael, the fiercest storm to hit Florida in 80 years and the third-most powerful ever to strike the U.S. mainland, battered the state’s Gulf coast with roof-shredding winds, raging surf and torrential rains before turning its diminishing fury on Georgia.	main
Up to a foot (30 cm) of rain was forecast in Florida.	distant_expectations_consequences
Gadsden County sheriff’s spokeswoman Anglie Hightower said a “male subject” was killed by a tree toppling onto his house in Greensboro, Florida, near the state capital, Tallahassee, in the first report of a fatality from the hurricane.	main_consequence
Severe flooding, heavily damaged buildings, uprooted trees and downed power lines appeared widespread in coastal areas near the storm’s landfall.	main_consequence
Television news footage during the day showed many homes submerged in floodwaters up to their roofs in Mexico Beach, where the fate of about 280 residents who authorities said defied evacuation orders was unknown.	main_consequence
Numerous buildings in Panama City were demolished, partially collapsed or without roofs amid deserted streets littered with debris, twisted, fallen tree trunks and dangling wires.	main_consequence
Authorities said the full extent of devastation would not be known until after daybreak on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
In the meantime, curfews were imposed across much of the region.	main_consequence
Bill Manning, a 63-year-old grocery clerk, fled his camper van in Panama City for safer quarters in a hotel only to see the electricity there go out.	distant_anecdotal
“My God, it’s scary.	distant_anecdotal
I didn’t expect all this,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
Michael, whose rapid intensification as it churned north over the Gulf of Mexico caught many by surprise, made landfall on Wednesday afternoon near Mexico Beach, about 20 miles (32 km) southeast of Panama City in Florida’s Panhandle region, with top sustained winds reaching 155 miles per hour (249 kph).	main
Without power, the city was plunged into darkness at nightfall and its flooded streets were mostly silent and devoid of people or traffic.	main_consequence
By Wednesday night, more than 403,000 homes and businesses were without electricity in Florida, Georgia and Alabama, utility companies said.	main_consequence
‘ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE’	distant_evaluation
Twenty miles south of Mexico Beach, floodwaters were more than 7-1/2 feet (2.3 meters) deep near Apalachicola, a town of about 2,300 residents, hurricane center chief Ken Graham said.	main_consequence
Wind damage was also evident.	cause_general
“There are so many downed power lines and trees that it’s almost impossible to get through the city,” Apalachicola Mayor Van Johnson said.	distant_evaluation
A man watches the sun set during Hurricane Michael in Panama City Beach, Florida, U.S. October 10, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Jonathan Bachman	error
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) said on Tuesday an estimated 500,000 Florida residents had been ordered or urged to seek higher ground before the storm in 20 counties spanning a 200-mile (320-km) stretch of shoreline.	cause_general
But Brad Kieserman of the American Red Cross said on Wednesday as many as 320,000 people on Florida’s Gulf Coast had disregarded evacuation notices.	distant_evaluation
The storm came ashore as a Category 4 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson wind scale, the biggest storm on record to strike the Florida Panhandle.	main
An estimated 6,000 evacuees took cover in emergency shelters, most of them in Florida, and that number was expected to swell to 20,000 across five states by week’s end, Kieserman said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bo Patterson, the mayor of Port St. Joe, just south of Mexico Beach, rode out the storm in his house seven blocks from the beach, describing the scene outside as “very, very scary.”	distant_evaluation
He was one of about 2,500 of the town’s 3,500 residents who ended up staying put, many of them caught off guard by the storm’s rapid escalation as it approached.	cause_general
“This happened so quickly,” he said.	distant_evaluation
FEMA head Brock Long acknowledged that early evacuation efforts in the area were slow in comparison to how quickly the hurricane intensified.	distant_evaluation
Michael grew from a tropical storm into a Category 4 hurricane over the course of about 40 hours.	cause_general
“Satellite images of Michael’s evolution on Tuesday night were, in a word, jaw-dropping,” wrote Bob Henson, a meteorologist with weather site Weather Underground.	distant_evaluation
With a low barometric pressure recorded at 919 millibars, the measure of a hurricane’s force, Michael ranked as the third-strongest storm on record to make landfall in the continental United States.	cause_general
Only Hurricane Camille on the Mississippi Gulf Coast in 1969 and the so-called Labor Day hurricane of 1935 in the Florida Keys were more intense.	distant_historical
President Donald Trump declared a state of emergency for all of Florida, freeing up federal assistance to supplement state and local disaster responses.	main_consequence
Its sustained winds were just 2 mph (3.2 kph) shy of an extremely rare Category 5.	main
About 3,500 Florida National Guard troops were deployed to assist with evacuations and storm recovery, along with more than 1,000 search-and-rescue personnel, Governor Rick Scott said.	main_consequence
Slideshow (29 Images)	error
The Pentagon said it had pre-positioned more than 2,200 active-duty military personnel, along with helicopters, high-water vehicles and swift-water boats for deployment as needed.	main_consequence
Even before landfall, the hurricane disrupted energy operations in the Gulf, cutting crude oil production by more than 40 percent and natural gas output by nearly a third as offshore platforms were evacuated ahead of the storm’s arrival.	cause_general
The storm’s intensity waned steadily as it pushed inland and curled northeasterly into Georgia after dark.	cause_general
It was downgraded to a Category 1 storm, with top sustained winds diminishing to 75 miles per hour (120 kph), about nine hours after it made landfall.	cause_general
The governors of North and South Carolina urged residents to brace for more heavy rain and storm-force winds as Michael plows northward up the Atlantic seaboard.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Carolinas are still reeling from severe flooding in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence less than a month ago.	cause_general
The National Hurricane Center said Michael would pass through the Carolinas as a tropical storm on Thursday, dumping as much as 8 inches of rain in some areas.	distant_expectations_consequences
MAZATLAN, Mexico (Reuters) - Hurricane Willa slammed into Mexico’s Pacific coast late on Tuesday, raking it with winds of 120 mph (195 kph) that brought power outages, buffeted buildings, and dumped torrential rain on tourist resorts where thousands of people had moved to safety.	main
Willa weakened as it moved inland but was still blowing winds of 115 mph (185 kph) more than an hour after it struck the coast and began advancing toward the state of Durango.	cause_general
Speaking by telephone, Jose Garcia, another resident of the hardest-hit area, said he had hunkered down with others in an Escuinapa hotel waiting for the storm to pass, listening to it rattle buildings as it drove onwards.	distant_anecdotal
“People were very alarmed,” the 60-year-old said.	distant_anecdotal
The storm did not strike hard in Mazatlan’s historic city center, which was nearly deserted ahead of its arrival.	distant_evaluation
“My house is made of sheet metal, wood and cardboard, and I’m scared it will fall on top of me,” said Rosa Maria Carrillo, 36, at a city shelter with her five children, aged 8 to 15.	distant_anecdotal
Several other tourist getaways in the state of Nayarit, as well as the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta in Jalisco state, were close to Willa’s path, which was forecast to bring a life-threatening storm surge of ocean water, wind and rainfall.	cause_general
Up to 18 inches (45 cm) of rainfall could pummel parts of the storm zone, the Miami-based hurricane center said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (31 Images)	error
The flood risk was compounded by rains caused by Vicente, a storm that dissipated early on Tuesday, having drenched parts of Jalisco, Colima, Michoacan and Guerrero states.	cause_general
Nayarit’s government said it would continue to suspend classes across 10 municipalities on Wednesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Whipping palm trees, bending power lines and causing floods, the center of Willa struck the coast near the town of Isla del Bosque in the northwestern state of Sinaloa, where many coastal areas had been evacuated before the storm hit.	main
Even buildings up to 500 meters (1,640 feet) distant from the coastline could lose power and suffer physical damage, Mexico’s National Meteorological Service said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Willa, a Category 3 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale was one of the most powerful hurricanes to hit Mexico from the Pacific in recent years.	cause_general
It was due to dissipate fast as it moved inland, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It was really strong,” said Cecilia Crespo, a spokeswoman for police in Escuinapa, a seaside town near to where the storm plowed inland.	distant_evaluation
“It knocked down trees, lamps, poles, walls,” she added by telephone.	distant_evaluation
“There’s no electricity.”	distant_evaluation
The storm drove into Mexico about 50 miles (80 km) south of Mazatlan, a major city and tourist resort in Sinaloa.	main
Willa had reached rare Category 5 status on Monday with winds near 160 mph (260 kph) before it began to lose power.	cause_specific
MEXICO BEACH, Fla. (Reuters) - Searchers on Friday uncovered the first body in the rubble of the Florida town of Mexico Beach, which was nearly obliterated by Hurricane Michael, as the toll from the historic storm rose to at least 18 and was expected to climb further.	main
The death toll is expected to rise as rescuers go house-to-house and comb through the rubble in Mexico Beach and other Florida coastal communities, such as Port St. Joe and Panama City, said Brock Long, administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).	distant_expectations_consequences
The Houston-based volunteer search-and-rescue network CrowdSource Rescue said its teams were trying to find about 2,100 people either reported missing or stranded and in need of help in Florida, co-founder Matthew Marchetti said.	cause_general
Social media websites were crowded with messages from those trying to reach missing family in Florida’s Bay and Gulf Counties.	cause_general
Marchetti said his volunteer search teams, consisting mostly of off-duty police officers and firefighters, also had rescued or accounted for 345 others previously reported to CrowdSource Rescue since Michael struck on Wednesday.	cause_general
DOGS AND BULLDOZERS	cause_general
FEMA crews have been using bulldozers and other heavy equipment to push a path through debris so rescuers can sift the rubble using specially trained search dogs.	cause_general
More than 1,700 search and rescue workers have been deployed, Governor Rick Scott’s office said in a statement, including seven swift-water rescue teams and nearly 300 ambulances.	cause_general
Michael crashed ashore near Mexico Beach on Wednesday afternoon as one of the most powerful storms in U.S. history, with winds of up to 155 mph (250 kph).	cause_specific
It pushed a wall of seawater inland, causing widespread flooding.	cause_specific
The tropical storm, which grew in less than two days into a Category 4 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, tore apart entire neighborhoods in the Panhandle, reducing homes to naked concrete foundations or piles of wood and siding.	cause_specific
Rescue teams, hampered by power and telephone outages, used cadaver dogs, drones and heavy equipment to hunt for hundreds of people unaccounted for in devastated communities across the Florida Panhandle.	cause_general
Damaged and destroyed buildings are seen in an aerial photograph, taken during a post-Hurricane Michael flight by a U.S. Coast Guard MH-65 helicopter over Mexico Beach, Florida, U.S. October 11, 2018.	error
Coast Guard/Petty Officer 1st Class Colin Hunt/Handout via REUTERS	error
Except for the emergency 911 system, authorities in Bay County, the epicenter of the disaster, were virtually without telephone or internet service until late on Friday, making communications internally and with the public difficult.	cause_general
“We didn’t have anything,” said Ruth Corley, a spokeswoman for the Bay County Sheriff’s Department.	distant_evaluation
“We’ve been writing things down on pieces of paper.	distant_evaluation
We’re doing what we can with the minimal media that we have.”	distant_evaluation
She said local television stations were knocked off the air for two days, and authorities were relying on the Gulf State College radio station to transmit public service bulletins.	cause_general
Search teams went door-to-door hunting victims.	cause_general
REBUILD RIGHT	distant_evaluation
FEMA’s Long urged communities such as Mexico Beach, where many homes were pulverized by 12 to 14 feet (3.7 to 4.3 meters) of storm surge, to rebuild to withstand future storms.	cause_general
“I’ve watched on television, thinking of what others have experienced, like in the Carolinas and Texas,” Mexico Beach Mayor Al Cathey told reporters referring to earlier hurricanes.	distant_evaluation
“It’s OK if you want to live on the coast or on top of a mountain that sees wildfires or whatever, but you have to build to a higher standard,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“If we’re going to rebuild, do it right.”	distant_evaluation
By Friday morning the storm remnants were about 275 miles (445 km) southwest of Nantucket, Massachusetts, packing maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 kph).	cause_general
More than 940,000 homes and businesses on the U.S. East Coast were without power and it could be weeks before power is restored to the most damaged parts of Florida.	cause_general
The numbers in emergency shelters were expected to swell to 20,000 across five states by Friday, said Brad Kieserman of the American Red Cross.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Coast Guard said it rescued 129 people.	cause_general
Slideshow (17 Images)	error
Even as rescuers searched the rubble for survivors or the dead, some Mexico Beach residents were nervously trickling back, expressing hope the place, nicknamed “the Forgotten Coast,” would not change too much as it rebuilds.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It was the perfect beach town.	distant_anecdotal
Not all of that commercialism,” said Dottie Sinclair, 57, a nurse, adding a Subway fast-food restaurant was the only commercial chain.	distant_anecdotal
“But it’s different when you walk down and see this, and your emotions run away.	distant_evaluation
“I don’t think it will ever be the same,” said her husband Danny, 64, who is semi-retired.	distant_anecdotal
“People will just pack up and leave.”	distant_anecdotal
This is just a small unique coastal community.”	distant_evaluation
No other information was available about the dead man found in Mexico Beach, said Joseph Zahralban, Miami’s fire chief who was leading a search and rescue unit.	cause_general
He said it was unclear if the man lived alone or with a family.	distant_evaluation
Three deaths were reported in Marianna, in Jackson County, Florida, Sheriff Lou Roberts told a news conference on Friday afternoon.	main
Florida accounts for nine of the storm-related deaths, with five more in Virginia, three in North Carolina and one in Georgia.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-06 14:44:04|Editor: Li Xia	error
They are expecting nine to 13 named storms with winds of 62 km per hour or higher, of which four to seven will strengthen into hurricanes.	distant_expectations_consequences
Of those storms, there may be up to two major hurricanes, which are classified as Category 3, 4 and 5 with winds of 177 km per hour or higher.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tropical Storm Gordon has weakened into a tropical depression over the U.S. state of Mississippi after making landfall late Tuesday near the Alabama-Mississippi border with near-hurricane level winds, killing a two-year-old child when a tree fell on her family's mobile home in Pensacola, Florida.	cause_general
By Wednesday afternoon, Gordon's center was well inland, dumping heavy rains and causing flooding in western Florida and coastal Alabama, the NHC said.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 (Xinhua) -- Florence has weakened slightly to a Category 3 hurricane but should remain a powerful storm for several more days, the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) said late Wednesday.	main
The hurricane was located about 1,990 km east-southeast of Bermuda and 1,750 km east-northeast of the northern Leeward Islands, with maximum sustained winds of 205 km per hour, according to the Miami-based weather agency.	cause_general
Some gradual weakening is forecast during the next 48 hours, with restrengthening possible over the weekend, it added.	main
There are no coastal watches or warnings in effect.	cause_general
Florence, the first major hurricane of the Atlantic season, was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane earlier in the day, with maximum sustained winds of 215 km per hour.	cause_general
Florence is the basin's sixth named storm of the year.	cause_general
Forecasters have said the Atlantic hurricane season is now expected to be less active as it enters its peak months due to a combination of conditions in the ocean and atmosphere that helps to limit storm development.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-24 02:12:45|Editor: zh	error
Footage from Thursday's live show of America's Morning Headquarters (AMHQ), a morning television program on The Weather Channel, showed that local people were driving on highway in heavy rain and some young players were still surfing in strong wind and waves.	cause_general
The National Weather Service has issued a flash flood warning for the area and the local government has urged residents to set aside two weeks' worth of food and water.	cause_general
"""Be prepared to shelter in place with 14 days of food supplies and water and any other necessities,"" Hawaii Gov."	distant_evaluation
David Ige said at a news conference Wednesday.	distant_evaluation
The central of the storm, measured by scientists as the most severe Category 5, could become the first major hurricane to make landfall in the state in 26 years from Thursday through Friday, forecasters said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The National Weather Service also said Thursday that Hurricane Lane could degrade to Category 3 when it reaches the islands somewhat since a southwesterly shear could impact the cyclone.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
A man refuels his car to prepare for the upcoming hurricane at a gas station in Honolulu of Hawaii, the United States, Aug. 22, 2018.	error
Hurricane Lane, predicted as the biggest weather threat to Hawaii in decades, moved perilously close to the Aloha State Thursday morning, triggering heavy rain, landslide and flooding.	error
The central of the storm, measured by scientists as the most severe Category 5, could become the first major hurricane to make landfall in the state in 26 years from Thursday through Friday, forecasters said.	error
(Xinhua/Sun Ruibo)	error
LOS ANGELES, Aug. 23 (Xinhua) -- Hurricane Lane, predicted as the biggest weather threat to Hawaii in decades, moved perilously close to the Aloha State Thursday morning, triggering heavy rain, landslide and flooding.	main
Videos posted by local residents on Twitter showed that flooding already has been running on the streets as Lane tracks toward the islands, with the eastern part standing on the strong windward side of the hurricane.	main_consequence
Parts of Big Island have measured 7 to 12 inches of rain in the past 12 hours, Hawaii County officials reported, adding that multiple landslides on Hwy 19 on Big Island made the road hazardous for travel.	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-01-19 00:27:05|Editor: Yurou	error
So far, extreme wind strengths of up to 130 km per hour have been measured at higher elevations of Western Germany.	cause_general
Large amounts of snow fell closer to the Alps in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.	cause_general
The national meteorological service (DWD) has advised citizens to remain indoors in areas most-affected by the storm due to risks posed by falling debris, de-rooted trees, and potential damage to power lines.	distant_evaluation
Schools in several German states were closed for the day.	main_consequence
Major airports have been adversely affected by the weather as well.	cause_general
Flights were cancelled out of security concerns at Duesseldorf airport, while the Cologne-Bonn airport was forced to temporarily close down entirely.	main_consequence
The DWD believes Friederike will leave behind less damage than experienced after storm Xavier in October 2017.	distant_expectations_consequences
At the time, trees carried more leaves and were particularly prone to collapse under wind pressure due to their larger surface area.	distant_historical
Seven people were killed in related incidents.	distant_historical
Meteorologists expect the current storm to travel on from Western Germany to the states of Saxony and Southern Brandenburg over the course of Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Throughout the country, weather patterns will remain unsteady in the coming days while temperatures drop.	distant_expectations_consequences
Photo taken on Jan. 18, 2018 shows collapsed roofs on a road in Menden, Germany, on Jan. 18, 2018.	error
"Storm ""Friederike"" brought powerful winds, heavy rain, and snowfall to parts of Germany on Thursday, causing at least three fatality and severe disruption to railway lines."	error
(Xinhua/Joachim Bywaletz)	error
BERLIN, Jan. 18 (Xinhua) -- Storm Friederike brought powerful winds, heavy rain, and snowfall to parts of Germany on Thursday, causing at least one fatality and severe disruption to railway lines.	main
A 59-year-old man was killed by a falling tree and several people were injured in similar incidents throughout the country following the arrival of storm in the morning.	main_consequence
Trains ceased operation in the states of North-Rhine Westphalia and Lower Saxony, leaving many passengers stranded.	main_consequence
Furthermore, travel speeds of trains in other parts of Germany were slowed considerably in reaction to hurricane-strength gusts.	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-05-30 11:31:43|Editor: Liangyu	error
An oil spill was caused by heavy floods at one of the nation's main oil refineries in Cienfuegos.	cause_general
It has been controlled by local authorities.	cause_general
Damage has been substantial in the agricultural sector, with crops such as rice, beans, tobacco and bananas particularly affected.	cause_general
"""We must work together and come out of this stronger,"" said the president."	distant_evaluation
"""Our experience tells us that with climate change these situations are going to occur frequently, therefore we must be prepared and be able to respond to each one of them."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Alberto, which passed through the Gulf of Mexico and hit the U.S. state of Florida and beyond, claimed the lives of two journalists on duty in the U.S. state of North Carolina on Monday, local media reported.	cause_general
Last year, Cuba was severely affected by hurricane Irma, which left 10 dead, and caused an estimated damage of 13 billion U.S. dollars.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
HAVANA, May 29 (Xinhua) -- Four people have died in Cuba over the last two days due to heavy rains associated with subtropical storm Alberto, which led to massive floods in the island nation's central provinces as well as damage to roads, bridges, houses and state institutions.	main
According to a Cuban state television report, the four victims died due to their imprudence such as walking in flooded areas and swimming in rivers with strong currents.	cause_specific
"""We have four people dead so far, two in the province of Ciego de Avila, one in Sancti Spiritus and another in Villa Clara due to reckless behavior,"" said Interior Minister Julio Gandarilla in a meeting on Tuesday, chaired by the country's president Miguel Diaz-Canel."	main
Over the last four days, heavy rains have affected the island nation's central provinces, as flood left thousands of homes under water.	cause_general
Over 51,000 Cubans have been evacuated in the area.	cause_general
Some 1,384 homes have been affected, with 174 totally collapsed, according to the meeting.	cause_general
Over 43,000 people remain without electricity in several provinces.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2017-09-26 07:16:39|Editor: Song Lifang	error
Cuba last offered humanitarian and medical aid to the U.S. in 2005, when former President Fidel Castro said the island could send doctors to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina devastated that city, but then U.S. President George W. Bush rejected the offer.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
HAVANA, Sept. 25 (Xinhua) -- Cuba on Monday offered humanitarian and medical aid to Puerto Rico which was hit by the devastating Hurricane Maria last week and left in a precarious economic and social situation.	main
Cuba's deputy Foreign Minister Rogelio Sierra said Havana has offered to send to San Juan an emergency campaign hospital with 39 doctors to help the needed population with health services.	main
"""Cuba also offers to send four brigades of electric workers to help our sister nation rebuild its electrical system,"" said the official in his Twitter account."	main
Cuba has already sent medical and relief brigades to Dominica and Antigua and Barbuda, which are also affected by recent hurricanes Maria and Irma.	cause_general
This offer must be accepted by Washington as Puerto Rico is a commonwealth of the United States and Cuban aid workers and doctors must be granted U.S. visas.	cause_general
"However, in the current state of Cuba-U.S. relations, it seems unlikely the White House will approve such offer as Washington has threatened to cut diplomatic ties with Havana over an alleged ""sonic attack"" in the island against U.S. diplomats."	distant_expectations_consequences
U.S. President Donald Trump already rolled back in June the historic opening started by his predecessor Barack Obama, although the new regulations haven't been published by U.S. federal agencies or departments.	distant_historical
Photo taken on Aug. 24, 2017 shows empty storage in a market in Houston, the United States.	error
The residents in the southern part of Texas are preparing for significant impacts from Hurricane Harvey as it is expected to make landfall as a Category 3Hurricane from the Gulf of Mexico on Friday.	error
(Xinhua/Liu Liwei)	error
Furthermore, the emergency services advice residents should plan to park their vehicles out of streets beginning Friday, especially those prone to flooding.	distant_evaluation
Meanwhile, the Houston Fire Department is preparing evacuation boats and swift water rescue assets ahead of the arrival of the storm.	main
The Houston Police Department and Public Works and Engineering Department (PWE) is preparing high water rescue vehicles to be used in the event they become necessary.	main
In addition, PWE has identified 41 intersections that are prone to flooding, and will make barricades available as it becomes safe to do so.	main
The General Services Department, Department and Neighborhoods and PWE are preparing to conduct rapid damage assessment following the impacts from this storm.	main
The Office of Emergency Management (OEM) is coordinating the City' s disaster response with neighboring jurisdictions, the State of Texas and federal agencies as necessary.	main
In addition, OEM will activate the City' s Emergency Operations Center Friday evening in support of anticipated emergency actions.	main
The island of Galveston would be the frontline facing the hurricane.	cause_general
The residents in the southern part of Texas are preparing for significant impacts from Hurricane Harvey as it is expected to make landfall as a Category 3 Hurricane from the Gulf of Mexico on Friday.	error
Galveston issued on Thursday a voluntary evacuation for the West End of Galveston Island.	main
Especially, the residents who have medical needs or other conditions are urged to move elsewhere, since high tides and heavy rains could cut off access for those in need of help from emergency responders.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The forecast is becoming more certain as the storm strengthens and the impacts to our area could be significant as we remain on the east side of the storm,"" Niki Bender, emergency management coordinator for the City of Galveston, told Xinhua."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Residents should prepare their homes for tidal flooding from a potential 4- to 5-feet (1.2 to 1.5 m) storm surge, gusting tropical storm force winds, and possible rains in excess of 15 inches (38 cm) through the duration of this system passing through our area,"" Bender said."	distant_expectations_consequences
The City of San Antonio's Office of Emergency Management has activated the emergency operation center in preparation for rain and weather conditions that may be caused by Hurricane Harvey.	main
Local residents in San Antonio, 320 km west of Houston, are encouraged to prepare their household for heavy rain and flooding by having enough water and food for at least three days, any necessary medications and an evacuation plan.	distant_evaluation
(Xinhua/Zhong Jia)	error
HOUSTON, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- People in the southern part of Texas are preparing for significant impacts from Hurricane Harvey as it is expected to make landfall as a Category 3 Hurricane from the Gulf of Mexico on Friday.	main
According to the National Weather Service forecast, impacts on the City of Houston in the U.S. state of Texas are expected to mostly be significant rainfall.	distant_expectations_consequences
The forecast currently indicates that Houston will see close to 50 cm of rainfall over the weekend and into early next week.	distant_expectations_consequences
This is likely to cause dangerous flash flooding, and could cause area flooding throughout the entire Houston region.	distant_expectations_consequences
Houston emergency services urge residents to take measures for both the impact of flooding and Tropical Storm force winds, including enough supplies for 5-7 days of water, food, medications and emergency items.	distant_evaluation
An employee holds a sign showing water has sold out in a chained market in Houston, the United States, Aug. 24, 2017.	error
Source: Xinhua| 2017-09-23 06:36:42|Editor: Liu	error
Antonio Carricarte, Cuba's first deputy minister of foreign trade and investment, thanked this sign of solidarity by the Chinese government as part of the historic ties of friendship and cooperation between the two countries.	distant_evaluation
"""This help confirms the important relations between Cuba and China because we are brother countries and we have ties of friendship, solidarity and respect,"" he said upon receiving the relief goods at the airport."	distant_evaluation
He also said China despite being geographically distant from Cuba sends this aid to express its solidarity and its government understands the magnitude of the damages caused by the hurricane to the island.	distant_evaluation
"""Regardless of the size of the country or its economies, it is also an expression of the relationships that can exist between large nations like China and smaller ones like Cuba,"" the official said."	distant_evaluation
A 9-member team of the Red Cross Society of China also participated in the welcome ceremony and in the coming days will be installing and handing over the humanitarian aid to the areas most affected by the storm.	distant_expectations_consequences
With this aid China joins other countries in the world that have sent humanitarian relief to Cuba after the passing of Hurricane Irma where it left a trail of destruction particularly in the central provinces of the country.	cause_general
Irma hit Cuba as a category-5 hurricane and during its path through the north coast of the island, left at least ten dead, 1.7 million people evacuated, heavy floods and serious damages to the tourism infrastructure, agricultural areas and housing.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
HAVANA, Sept. 22 (Xinhua) -- An Air China's 747 aircraft arrived Friday at Jose Marti International Airport with humanitarian aid to Cuba after the Caribbean nation was badly hit by the Hurricane Irma.	main
The first plane with 86 tons relief materials like tents, generators, folding beds, blankets, water pumps, luminaires, among others, sent by China to Cuba on Friday.	cause_general
Upon receiving the aid at the airport, Chinese Ambassador to Cuba, Chen Xi said that based on the traditionally friendly relations between the two peoples, the Chinese government decided to send emergency humanitarian aid to the Caribbean nation.	cause_specific
"""We hope these materials can contribute to the reconstruction of the affected areas and in addition to this emergency aid, China will send six ships full of rice to Cuba before the year ends,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
The envoy said three more flights will be made with this type of aircraft to complete the aid offered by Beijing to Havana.	distant_expectations_consequences
.	error
"""China and Cuba are friendly countries that over the years have supported each other and are firmly united in difficult situations,"" Chen said."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-20 16:16:45|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
Local officials have repeatedly stressed that the list of unaccounted for may include people who may not know they were reported missing.	distant_evaluation
The fire, which was first reported on Nov. 8 in Butte County, scorched 151,272 acres (612 square km), with 70 percent contained, and destroyed over 15,000 structures, including 11,713 houses, 472 commercial and 3,388 other buildings, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.	cause_specific
Evacuation warnings in some areas affected by the Camp Fire was lifted.	cause_general
Local officials warned evacuated residents not to return to their homes as there were no electricity, no water and no phone service.	distant_expectations_consequences
The National Weather Service has issued a flash flood watch on Wednesday afternoon through Friday morning for the fire area.	cause_general
Multiple agencies of different levels are preparing for the potential impacts of storm weather in wildfire-impacted areas within Butte County, according to a county release.	cause_general
The Camp Fire is now the deadliest and most destructive wildfire in California's history.	cause_general
It's also the deadliest wildfire in 100 years in the United States.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on Nov. 19, 2018 shows the wreckage of vehicle in the site where the wildfire engulfed in Paradise of Butte County, California, the United States.	error
The death toll from the massive wildfire in Northern California has climbed to 79, according to authorities.	error
(Xinhua/Wu Xiaoling)	error
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 19 (Xinhua) -- The death toll from the massive wildfire in Northern California, dubbed the Camp Fire, has climbed to 79, while the number of unaccounted for decreased by nearly 300, said authorities on Monday evening.	main
Two human remains were found on Monday, one in a structure in the town of Paradise and another near the town of Magalia, bringing the death toll from 77 to 79.	cause_specific
Of the 79 fatalities, 64 have been tentatively identified.	cause_general
The number of unaccounted for decreased by 294 and currently stands at 699, according to the Butte County Sheriff.	cause_general
A firefighter battles wildfire near a freeway in Simi Valley, California, the United States on Nov. 12, 2018.	error
But local authorities also said that a flash flood watch is still in effect through Friday afternoon for the areas impacted by the Camp Fire.	cause_general
Officials warned local residents that they are at risk for flash flooding, mudflows and debris flows during periods of intense rainfall.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Camp Fire has become the deadliest wildfire in the United States since 1918's Cloquet Fire which killed 453 people in northern Minnesota, and the deadliest and most destructive wildfire in the history of the western U.S. state of California.	cause_general
(Xinhua/Zhao Hanrong)	error
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- The deadliest wildfire in 100 years in the United States, Northern California's Camp Fire, is nearly fully contained after burning for more than two weeks, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire).	main
The massive fire, which has taken the lives of 84 people and scorched 153,336 acres (620 square kms), is 95 percent contained as of Friday morning, said Cal Fire in its latest incident update.	main
The blaze which was first reported on Nov. 8 in Butte County, destroyed over 18,000 structures, including 13,954 residences, 514 commercial and 4,265 other buildings.	cause_specific
More than 1,600 firefighters are still working on the scene, aided by 125 engines and 5 helicopters.	cause_specific
They also got some help from the rain in the area in recent days.	cause_specific
"""The rain has assisted in extinguishing hot spots and smoldering fire."	cause_specific
"All containment lines continue to hold,"" said Cal Fire in its update report, adding that firefighters will continue patrolling for hazards while responding to calls for service throughout the fire area and fire suppression repair personnel continue to assess areas for rehabilitation and conduct repair."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-13 15:03:13|Editor: Chengcheng	error
The second flood peak of the Yangtze River this year has formed in its upper reaches, with severe flooding occurring in many branches of the river, according to the hydrology bureau of the Yangtze River water resources commission.	main_consequence
Peak flow at the Three Gorges reservoir is expected to reach 61,000 cubic meters per second on Saturday, a record high this year, it said.	distant_expectations_consequences
So far, more than 80,000 residents affected by floods in Chongqing Municipality have been relocated to safe places.	main_consequence
The rain has also disrupted road and rail traffic.	main_consequence
More than 10 highways in Sichuan Province have been blocked due to flooding as of Thursday afternoon, and a bridge across the Minjiang River collapsed in Aba Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture, local traffic authorities said.	main_consequence
A section of the Baoji-Chengdu railway in Shaanxi Province was blocked following several landslides triggered by rain on Thursday and Friday.	main_consequence
Eighteen trains stopped services or changed routes.	main_consequence
The flood control office of Linfen City, north China's Shanxi Province, ordered all scenic spots on the banks of the Yellow River to shut down.	main_consequence
The Hukou Waterfall, a well-known tourist attraction, has been closed to visitors Thursday as the Yellow River continues to rise.	main_consequence
China's national weather observatory issued a yellow alert for rainstorms Friday, as heavy rain will continue sweeping across parts of the country.	main_consequence
Video Player Close	error
China has a four-tier color-coded weather warning system, with red the most severe, followed by orange, yellow and blue.	cause_general
Workers of flood control department patrol in Ciqikou, an ancient township in Chongqing Municipality, southwest China, July 13, 2018.	error
Heavy rain continues in most parts of China on Friday, causing floods and traffic disruptions, forcing people to evacuate and tourist attractions to close.	error
The second flood peak of the Yangtze River this year has formed in its upper reaches, with severe flooding occurring in many branches of the river.	error
The Jialing River is one of the major tributaries where the water level surged to 196.44 meters when the peak arrived at Beibei section in downtown Chongqing by 12 a.m. on Friday.	error
So far, more than 80,000 residents affected by floods in Chongqing Municipality have been relocated to safe places.	error
(Xinhua/Wang Quanchao)	error
BEIJING, July 13 (Xinhua) -- Heavy rain continues in most parts of China on Friday, causing floods and traffic disruptions, forcing people to evacuate and tourist attractions to close.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-05 19:56:36|Editor: Yamei	error
The headquarters ordered the reservoir to cut its outflow to 40,000 cubic meters per second.	cause_specific
Meanwhile, the reservoir's power station began to run at full capacity starting July 3.	cause_general
Another round of heavy rain in the upper streams of the Yangtze is expected from July 8, according to the headquarters.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on July 5, 2018 shows water discharging from the Three Gorges Dam, a gigantic hydropower project on the Yangtze River, in central China's Hubei Province.	error
At 8 a.m. of July 5, the reservoir faced an inflow of 51,000 cubic meters per second and an outflow of 40,000 cubic meters per second.	cause_specific
The first flood of the Yangtze River this year has formed on its upper reaches.	cause_specific
(Xinhua/Zheng Jiayu)	error
WUHAN, July 5 (Xinhua) -- The Three Gorges reservoir is preparing for the first flood of the year, according to the Yangtze River Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters.	main
Heavy rain in the upper streams of the Yangtze River around July 4 has resulted in flooding.	cause_specific
At 8 a.m. Thursday, the reservoir saw an inflow of 51,000 cubic meters per second.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-25 16:10:08|Editor: Li Xia	error
"Meanwhile, those affected by the deluge said water suddenly gushed into their homes in the wee hours of Aug. 15 when they were still asleep, and that there was ""no prior warning"" from the state administration."	distant_evaluation
K.A.	distant_anecdotal
Jose, a resident of Chengannur area of flood-affected Alappuzha district, told Xinhua that he and his wife heard water coming into their home on the night of Aug. 14-15, first through the sewerage system and then from beneath the doors.	distant_anecdotal
His house is located on the banks of Pampa river which is connected to Kakki and Pampa dams situated in the state.	distant_anecdotal
But the state's Water Resources Minister Mathew Thomas said they had issued the warning through television and radio media alerting the people about the impending floods.	distant_evaluation
"""We had issued floods warning on the night of August 14-15, but then everything happened so fast,"" the minister told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, India, Aug. 25 (Xinhua) -- A blame game has begun between India's two southern states - Kerala and Tamil Nadu over the cause of the devastating floods which claimed nearly 370 lives and left over 1.3 million people homeless in Kerala.	main
The government of Kerala told the country's apex court - Supreme Court of India, on Friday that the floods occurred because its neighboring state Tamil Nadu released water from its Mullaperiyar dam.	cause_specific
"The sudden release of water caused an ""overload"" in the Idukki reservoir, in Kerala, downstream and water had to be released, Kerala said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, filed in response to a petition that wanted a reduction of water level at the Mullaperiyar dam."	cause_specific
"In its petition, Kerala stated that it had repeatedly suggested to Tamil Nadu to ""gradually"" release water from Mullaperiyar dam, but the latter did not pay heed to it."	distant_evaluation
Tamil Nadu contended that it released water on Aug. 16, nearly a week after floods situation erupted in Kerala, which was battered by torrential rains since Aug. 8 that partly led to the worst ever monsoons in a century.	cause_specific
In its counter-affidavit submitted before the apex court, Tamil Nadu government stated that the volume of water released from its Mullaperiyar dam to Idukki dam in Kerala was far less than the quantity exceeded by Idukki and Idamalaiyar dams (in Kerala).	cause_specific
The next date of hearing is scheduled for Sept. 6.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-14 21:59:24|Editor: Liangyu	error
Over 1.87 million people have also been affected by flood in Gansu Province, with 14 dead, 4 missing, and 31,600 residents relocated.	main_consequence
Heavy rainstorms also triggered a landslide Thursday in Nanyu village, Zhouqu County, but no casualties have been reported so far.	main_consequence
Video Player Close	error
CHONGQING, July 14 (Xinhua) -- Nearly 100,000 residents were temporarily evacuated as a flood peak passed the city proper of southwest China's Chongqing Municipality on Saturday.	main_consequence
Water levels in the Jialing and Yangtze rivers exceeded the warning levels by 5.92 meters and 3.78 meters, respectively, as flood peaks passed the city, according to the municipal flood control and drought relief headquarters.	main
Heavy rain in the upper reaches of the Yangtze, Jialing, and Fujiang rivers caused the worst floods since 2012 in the region.	cause_specific
The municipality has coordinated multiple dams, including Three Georges, to discharge flood water, issued warnings, and organized the evacuation of residents to minimize the losses caused by the floods.	main_consequence
The Ministry of Emergency Management has also sent emergency relief supplies to severely flooded areas in Sichuan and Gansu provinces Friday, including 8,000 tents, 8,000 folding beds, and 50,000 coats and quilts.	main_consequence
The ministry also dispatched teams to flood-hit areas including Deyang, Sichuan Province, and Dingxi, Gansu Province, to coordinate the rescue efforts.	main_consequence
Heavy rain has also damaged farm and aquatic products, as well as facilities including vegetable greenhouses and livestock housing, and destructed farmlands and fishponds in Sichuan, according to the provincial agricultural department.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-23 22:05:39|Editor: ZX	error
Safety personnel have been required to promptly update and report information regarding floods, while reservoir management agencies have also been demanded to release flood waters according to instructions.	main
The water resources department of northeast China's Heilongjiang Province said Monday that water levels of the main stream of the Heilongjiang River are currently higher compared to the same period in history, due to lingering rainfall.	distant_evaluation
Water levels of several main streams have already exceeded the warning level.	cause_specific
The provincial meteorological observatory forecast rainstorms and high winds in the following days in the province.	distant_expectations_consequences
In northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, more than 5,200 residents have been evacuated as torrential rain has battered Helan Mountain since Sunday.	main
The region saw heavy rain between Sunday night and Monday morning.	cause_specific
The maximum rainfall during this period reached 277.6 millimeters in Helan Mountain, and floods have formed in the eastern areas at the foot of the mountain.	cause_specific
The regional flood control and drought relief headquarters have organized relevant departments including public security, fire, water resources and traffic to evacuate residents from affected areas.	main
An auxiliary police officer remains missing after being washed away by floods during the evacuation.	distant_anecdotal
A search operation is underway.	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
An injured police officer is also receiving treatment at the hospital.	distant_anecdotal
In north China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, floods triggered by torrential rain have left 12 people dead and three others missing, local authorities said Monday.	cause_general
The regional meteorological observatory has issued a red alert for rainstorms, warning that rainfall will continue in the following days and may cause floods and landslides in cities and towns.	cause_specific
Inner Mongolia has been hit by heavy rain since the flood season started this month.	cause_specific
A number of roads and hydrological facilities have been damaged.	cause_general
More than 338,000 residents and over 157,000 hectares of crops have been affected by heavy rain.	cause_general
More than 300 houses have been destroyed, and a total of 9,307 people have been relocated, according to the local authorities.	cause_general
The direct economic losses in the region were estimated at 637 million yuan (94 million U.S. dollars).	cause_general
Meanwhile, Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei Province are expecting heavy rain on Monday and Tuesday, under the influence of Ampil, the 10th typhoon this year, the Beijing Meteorological Service said Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Beijing has issued a blue alert warning against mud flows and landslides in mountainous areas.	cause_specific
BEIJING, July 23 (Xinhua) -- As rainfall continued to batter northern China, relevant departments have been required to make necessary preparations for possible disasters caused by the rain.	main
China's Ministry of Emergency Management (MEM) on Sunday called for better efforts to mitigate disasters and reduce casualties during the flood season.	main
"MEM's Vice Minister Huang Ming said that late July and early August is a ""critical stage"" for fighting floods and providing relief."	distant_evaluation
The Yellow River Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, the second longest river in China, issued a new alert for floods in its upper reaches Monday morning.	cause_specific
The water level in the section of Lanzhou, the capital city of northwest China's Gansu Province, along the Yellow River, has risen rapidly due to heavy rain.	cause_specific
A hydrologic station located in Lanzhou recorded a water flow of 2,700 cubic meters per second at 5:00 a.m. Monday morning, and the figure rose to 3,600 cubic meters per second at 8:00 a.m.	cause_specific
The headquarters has asked relevant departments in the upper reaches of the Yellow River to strengthen precautions against floods and landslides, as well as evacuate people from affected areas, and enhance monitoring along the river and dikes.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-18 19:12:26|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
"""I had to row a boat and even swim to the mid-stream to measure water levels."	distant_historical
"It was troublesome and extremely dangerous,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Thanks to the advancement of technology in flood control, officials like He no longer have to risk their lives to measure water levels.	distant_evaluation
"""The automatic observation and flood prediction system achieves full coverage of the Yangtze -- the mainstream, primary tributaries, large reservoirs, key medium reservoirs and lakes along the river,"" He said."	main
In Anqing alone, more than 600 stations measure and report rainfall automatically, and 210 water level gauging stations provide precise and timely monitoring data, which helps officials form and implement emergency plans.	cause_specific
In addition, a series of flood control equipment has been put into use.	cause_specific
"In 2016, a collapsible mobile ""water plugging wall"" with a waterproof canvas bag at its core was used to fill dike breaches in Anqing."	distant_historical
"In just 10 minutes, the ""wall"" can swell up to six meters, serving as a water barrier."	cause_general
"""China has comprehensively strengthened its flood resistance ability in the past 20 years,"" He said."	distant_evaluation
In 2010, flood control headquarters in neighboring Jiangxi Province used satellite remote sensing to evaluate flood situations and dispatch rescue teams to the worst-hit areas.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
Two years later, drones were used to monitor water levels.	distant_historical
This year, the province purchased five units of drainage equipment that can adapt to different environments such as cities and farmland.	cause_specific
Seven remote-control rescue robots also came into service in Jiangxi.	cause_specific
Shaped like lifeboats, these robots can evacuate three to four people stranded by the flood and deliver relief supplies.	cause_general
"""We have set up a compete flood prevention communication system, which can automatically send warning messages to residents once it detects a potential risk of flood,"" said Wang Bin, secretary general of Huaihe River Flood Control Headquarters."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Technology improves prediction accuracy, increases rescue efficiency, and reduces losses caused by flooding."""	distant_evaluation
Huaihe is another flood-prone river that originates from central China's Henan Province.	cause_general
With the advanced flood observation system and the introduction of cutting-edge equipment, floods are no longer as life-threatening as they were before, He added.	distant_evaluation
by Zhang Kai, Cao Bin, and Shen Yang	error
NANCHANG, July 18 (Xinhua) -- Holding a smartphone in his hand, He Xuehao, director of the flood control office in Anqing City, China's Anhui Province, knows everything about the city's real-time precipitation and hydrologic conditions.	distant_evaluation
Anqing is situated in the lower reaches of the Yangtze, China's longest river.	cause_general
Every summer, flood season arrives just in time to worry flood control officials like He.	distant_evaluation
In the summer of 1998, China's Yangtze River flooded, causing more than 1,000 deaths.	distant_historical
Determining rising water levels is one of the biggest challenges for the flood control office.	cause_general
He still remembers that 20 years ago, when he was 16 years old, he had to patrol dikes every two hours, with a bamboo pole, a flashlight, and an umbrella, for days on end.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-18 19:20:27|Editor: mym	error
Authorities said the floods have destroyed over 10,000 km of roads and thousands of residential houses.	cause_general
Disaster management officials said it will take some time to make a proper damage assessment.	distant_evaluation
The airport in Kochi has been shut at least till Aug. 26 and flight operations have been shifted to state capital Thiruvananthapuram.	cause_general
Indian Meteorological department officials said until Aug. 16 actual rainfall recorded in the state was 619.5 mm, compared to the normal 244.1 mm.	cause_specific
Officials in Kerala described the flood as the worst in a century.	distant_evaluation
According to the local government, the flood claimed 324 lives and displaced thousands of people.	cause_general
"""Kerala is facing its worst flood in 100 years."	distant_evaluation
"324 lives lost and 223,139 people are in over 1500 relief camps,"" a government statement said."	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
NEW DELHI, Aug. 18 (Xinhua) -- As the southern Indian state of Kerala reels under a massive flooding, several state governments across the country have announced aid as their contribution to the relief fund.	main
The Indian government has pressed in dozens of boats and helicopters to evacuate people from the flooded areas.	main
Hundreds of Indian troops stepped up efforts to rescue thousands of people stranded in the deluge.	main
Chief Minister of southern Telangana state K Chandrashekar Rao has announced a relief of over 3.5 million U.S. dollars to aid Kerala.	main
The chief minister has instructed chief secretary to handover the aid to Kerala government, a government spokesman said.	distant_evaluation
State governments of Punjab, Bihar, Haryana, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and some other states have also announced assistance.	main
On Saturday Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out an aerial survey of the flood-hit Kerala and announced a relief of 71.6 million U.S. dollars for the battered state, in addition to 14.3 million U.S. dollars announced earlier.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-12 23:15:14|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Sichuan relief authority has sent 2,000 quilts and 1,000 cotton-padded coats and other supplies to flood-hit regions while Gansu has allocated 8.39 million yuan for disaster relief.	main
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, July 12 (Xinhua) -- China's disaster relief authorities launched a level IV emergency response plan Thursday to help flood victims in west China's Sichuan and Gansu provinces.	main
About 932,000 people in Sichuan Province were affected by floods caused by heavy rains by midday Thursday, with three deaths and 101,000 people evacuated.	cause_general
Over 600 houses fell and 36,900 hectares of farmland were flooded.	cause_general
The province suffered direct economic losses worth 2.4 billion yuan (360.1 million U.S. dollars).	cause_general
Gansu Province saw about 1.082 million people affected, 12 deaths, four people missing and 27,000 people evacuated.	cause_general
Over 1,200 houses fell and total direct economic losses reached 1.47 billion yuan.	cause_general
The central government has sent relief work teams to flood-hit regions to guide relief efforts.	main
Paula King, a widow who lost everything when Hurricane Katrina hit her Mississippi town, awoke yesterday to the possibility of being evicted from the hotel room in Queens she has lived in since September.	distant_anecdotal
Since September, her address has been Room 612 of the Radisson Hotel J. F. K. in Jamaica.	distant_anecdotal
She lives out of suitcases and stores her food in cardboard boxes.	distant_anecdotal
''Now this is my bedroom, living room and dining room right here,'' she said, starting to cry.	distant_anecdotal
''My church is gone, my friends are gone, there's nothing there.	distant_anecdotal
Everything is gone, just devastated.	distant_anecdotal
You wonder where the people are.''	distant_anecdotal
At the news conference, held on the first floor of the hotel, evacuees and their advocates criticized FEMA's decision to stop the hotel payments.	cause_general
Charlie King, a lawyer and a Democratic candidate for New York State attorney general, said the evacuees in New York City would be protected by city and state housing laws and could not be thrown out without a formal eviction proceeding, which could take months.	distant_expectations_consequences
Still, he said, given what many evacuees had already endured, ''it is just unbelievable that we are in this situation.''	distant_evaluation
City Councilman Charles Barron criticized a federal judge's rejection of a last-minute appeal to extend the FEMA deadline, and urged New York's Congressional leaders to fight the ruling.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tens of thousands of evacuees across the country were moving out of their hotel rooms to comply with a deadline set by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is no longer paying their hotel bills.	cause_specific
Other speakers called FEMA's decision to end the subsidies another example of the bungling that has characterized the government's response to Katrina, one of the worst disasters in American history.	distant_evaluation
Brenda Stokely of the People's Hurricane Relief Fund called it ''the worst displacement of African-Americans and others since the Civil War.''	distant_evaluation
In a conference call with reporters yesterday, Libby Turner, FEMA's transitional housing director, defended the decision.	cause_general
''We looked at the situation and this is what we decided as the best way to go,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
Ms. Turner said FEMA had spent $542 million on hotel accommodations for the hurricane evacuees.	cause_general
About 88 percent of all evacuees staying in hotels and motels, or about 10,500 families, have moved into longer-term housing with rent-assistance checks from FEMA, she said.	cause_general
Evacuees still living in hotels are eligible for assistance from state, city and charity organizations, she said.	cause_general
Tony Pinto, the manager of the Radisson in Jamaica, said the hotel had been charging FEMA a $129 nightly rate.	cause_general
''Were not throwing anybody out,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''We're just following the rules.''	distant_evaluation
Many were facing homelessness.	distant_evaluation
The Rev.	distant_anecdotal
Donald Hudson, a Queens pastor helping local evacuees, said that many of the hotel guests who had moved into rental apartments were getting rental assistance from FEMA.	distant_anecdotal
But, he added, others have had trouble getting leases because of problems with credit checks, unemployment and skeptical landlords.	distant_anecdotal
Of the 373 families that came to New York City because of the hurricane, 245 have moved into apartments and other types of housing, said Angela Allen, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Homeless Services.	cause_general
Then, word came that the Radisson evacuees were getting a reprieve.	main
As a throng of television crews gathered outside for a midday news conference, hotel officials announced that despite the end of federal compensation for evacuees affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the 17 families remaining at the Radisson could stay on indefinitely.	main
The more than 100 evacuees in six other hotels across New York City will also be allowed to stay for now, advocates said.	main
It was the latest of several eviction scares for local evacuees in the past month.	cause_general
At the Radisson, Mrs. King, 59, sank into her bed, sighed in relief and called the close call another episode of a life lived in limbo.	distant_anecdotal
Mrs. King had fled Biloxi, Miss., as the hurricane headed for the city, leaving behind her new four-bedroom home.	distant_anecdotal
Mobile homes worth hundreds of millions of dollars are deteriorating in a muddy field in Arkansas and may never be used to house victims of Hurricane Katrina because of a dispute over where to install them, federal officials acknowledged Monday.	main
''If sites for those mobile homes are not approved in Louisiana, it is possible they will never be used for hurricane relief,'' said Nicol Andrews, a FEMA spokesman.	main
The report on the mobile homes, as well as widespread fraud in FEMA's emergency assistance to hurricane victims, came as the federal government's top three domestic security and disaster relief officials vowed to fix flaws in the nation's emergency response programs.	cause_general
''I am accountable and accept responsibility for the performance of the entire department, good and bad,'' the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, told local and state disaster officials at a conference in Alexandria, Va. ''I also have the responsibility to fix what went wrong.''	distant_evaluation
The changes will include a cadre of new disaster response workers who will be available to respond quickly to any natural disaster or terrorist attack, Mr. Chertoff said, which could number as many as 1,500, a department official said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Homeland Security Department is also setting up specialized reconnaissance teams -- with access to helicopters, airplanes and high-tech electronic equipment that can send live video feeds to Washington -- to make sure officials know what is going on in a disaster zone.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Chertoff and R. David Paulison, the acting FEMA director, and Frances Fragos Townsend, President Bush's domestic security adviser, also promised to revise rules on debris removal and temporary housing, so local and state governments could move faster to clean up after a disaster and house the homeless.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Chertoff, Mr. Paulison and Ms. Townsend, repeating plans Mr. Chertoff outlined last year, also said they would improve communications systems and the registration process for disaster victims, so there would be fewer delays in getting help for those most in need.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Hurricane Katrina is a defining moment in the history of emergency management,'' Mr. Paulison said at the conference, organized by the National Emergency Management Association.	distant_evaluation
Ms. Townsend, who at the request of Mr. Bush has been conducting her own investigation into the government's response to Hurricane Katrina, said she would issue a report by the end of the month that would have more than 100 recommendations for improving disaster response.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We must restore and re-earn your confidence and trust,'' she told the local and state officials, ''so that when somebody says 'I am from the federal government and I am here to help,' you can believe it and not laugh.''	distant_evaluation
Only about 2,700 of the 25,000 mobile homes ordered at a cost of $850 million have been installed, and at least 10,000 are sitting in Hope, Ark., according to documents and statements from Federal Emergency Management Agency officials.	cause_general
Back in Washington, members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee were learning of problems still unfolding.	cause_general
To date, about 72,000 travel trailers have been installed and occupied, of the roughly 100,000 that have been bought.	cause_general
Mr. Paulison said the agency was moving to order 10,000 more of the units, which cost about $10,000 each, while mobile homes cost on average $34,000.	cause_general
FEMA officials said that they had installed both trailers and mobile homes after previous disasters and that they had no reason to believe that Hurricane Katrina would be different.	distant_evaluation
But Bill Croft, coordinator for the hurricane housing task force in Louisiana, said federal officials should have realized that many hard-hit communities are in a flood plain, where a federal regulation bans mobile homes.	distant_evaluation
''They are the ones who make these rules,'' Mr. Croft said.	distant_evaluation
He suggested that FEMA relax the regulation to allow the mobile homes near the coast.	distant_expectations_consequences
Another alternative would involve having the federal government pay Louisiana for the full cost of providing services if large, so-called FEMAvilles with hundreds of mobile homes were created in rural or suburban areas.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ms. Andrews, the FEMA spokeswoman, said that relaxing the flood-plain regulation was not the answer.	distant_evaluation
''There are areas throughout Louisiana and the southeastern United States that aren't in a flood plain,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
Though about 55,000 Louisiana families are still waiting for a manufactured housing unit, the mobile homes may never be used because FEMA regulations prohibit them from being installed in flood-prone coastal areas, federal officials said.	cause_specific
As it stands, Richard L. Skinner, inspector general at the Homeland Security Department, told the Senate panel, many of the mobile homes might have to be sold as surplus, stored for some future disaster use or given to another federal agency.	distant_expectations_consequences
''If they're sold as surplus property, what kind of return can you expect on that?''	distant_expectations_consequences
Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, asked Mr. Skinner.	distant_expectations_consequences
His answer infuriated the panelmembers.	distant_evaluation
''It's certainly not going to be very high,'' he responded, given the way they were being stored at a spot where some are sinking into the mud.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Some of the trailers that we inspected are actually warping, have lost wheels, and some have been cannibalized, parts taken out, and we don't even know where the parts are right now.	distant_evaluation
So their value is going to decrease tremendously.''	distant_evaluation
Members of a Senate committee investigating the response to Hurricane Katrina called the mobile home episode an appalling example of government stumbling.	distant_evaluation
''These trailers are going to take the place of those very expensive toilet seats that we remember from Pentagon days,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut.	distant_evaluation
''It's really absolutely unbelievable, and unacceptable.''	distant_evaluation
In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, FEMA ordered far too many mobile homes and too few travel trailers, which are smaller, less expensive and more portable, and can be placed on lots in the disaster zone.	distant_evaluation
The federal government had expected that Louisiana officials would identify sites inland where the mobile homes could be placed.	distant_expectations_consequences
But so far, with just a few exceptions, they has not done so, officials said.	cause_general
Four weeks after a northeaster caused extensive flooding in several Westchester communities, homeowners continued to file for federal assistance last week to cope with damages.	main
The last day to sign up to receive aid is June 23, Mr. Alejandre said.	cause_general
Additional outreach is being conducted by FEMA and the State Emergency Management Office at Home Depot stores in two Westchester locations: 601 Sprain Road in Yonkers and 150 Midland Avenue in Port Chester.	main
Today is the last day FEMA outreach workers will be there to answer questions about flood cleanup and how to prepare for future flooding.	cause_general
Fletcher Jackson, a FEMA community outreach representative working at the Home Depot in Yonkers, said about 60 to 100 people a day were stopping at the information table.	main
About half had sustained flood damage in the April 15 storm.	cause_general
''We want people to be better prepared,'' Mr. Alejandre said.	distant_evaluation
''The question is not if there will be another event, but when.''	distant_evaluation
Sewage Danger Is Over In Hudson, Officials Say	cause_general
County health officials on Thursday lifted a warning cautioning people to stay out of the Hudson River, six days after a pipe ruptured in Yonkers, releasing more than 7.5 million gallons of raw sewage into the river.	cause_general
''We haven't had a spill of this size for half a dozen years,'' said Mary Landrigan, a spokeswoman with the county Health Department.	distant_evaluation
''It's beginning to ease up a little bit,'' said Art Alejandre, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is coordinating assistance efforts.	distant_evaluation
The spill occurred May 4 when a 48-inch concrete pipe broke after a hillside, weakened by heavy rainfall in April, collapsed.	cause_general
The break occurred just north of the Greystone train station, contaminating water from the northern end of the Bronx, through Westchester and into southern Rockland County.	cause_general
Ms. Landrigan said contact with the contaminated water could lead to stomach cramps, vomiting and diarrhea, although no cases had been reported by late last week.	distant_evaluation
The leak was fixed within days, and Ms. Landrigan said tidal action and the large volume of water in the river would disperse the sewage.	distant_evaluation
Drinking water was not affected.	cause_general
However, an additional half million gallons of sewage flowed into a nearby wetland.	cause_general
State environmental officials said they were examining the impact to determine whether a cleanup would be necessary.	cause_general
THE WEEK	error
However, he said, outreach centers being operated at home improvement centers last week had resulted in an increase in applications for aid.	cause_general
By midweek, there had been more than 5,146 registrations statewide for assistance, more than two-thirds -- 3,507 -- from Westchester.	main
More than $7 million in assistance had been distributed statewide, Mr. Alejandre said, about $5.9 million for housing assistance, most of it in Westchester.	main
He said 19 loans had been approved by the federal Small Business Administration for more than $1 million statewide.	main
He attributed the small number of loans to the fact that many of the applications sent out to businesses seeking assistance had not been returned.	distant_evaluation
He noted that residents who are denied assistance can appeal the decision.	cause_general
Help in resubmitting applications is being offered at three disaster recovery centers, in Mamaroneck, Eastchester and New Rochelle.	main
Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements.	cause_general
A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river's overflow.	distant_evaluation
''The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,'' Professor Kusky said.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It's a self-perpetuating problem.''	distant_evaluation
Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide.	distant_evaluation
Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few.	distant_evaluation
''This was absolutely a dodged bullet,'' Professor Pinter said.	distant_evaluation
''This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.''	distant_evaluation
People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain.	cause_general
And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.	cause_general
THF Realty Inc. used Missouri's tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993.	distant_historical
Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers' flood paths.	main
The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said.	cause_general
The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood.	distant_historical
And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county.	distant_evaluation
''We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,'' said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty.	distant_evaluation
''The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better.	distant_evaluation
The risks are really substantially mitigated.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help.	distant_evaluation
''We will continue to build even more,'' Ms. Nunn said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here.	distant_evaluation
''We're not even close to having any issues,'' said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield.	distant_expectations_consequences
About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale.	cause_general
Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, ''We have 100 percent confidence that it's done right, and the way it's supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising.	distant_evaluation
Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain.	cause_general
The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis.	distant_anecdotal
''It's not going to flood here for another 100 years,'' Mr. Snider said, ''and I won't be around by then.''	distant_anecdotal
But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout.	distant_evaluation
''If history tells us anything, it's that levees once built eventually fail,'' Professor Pinter said.	distant_expectations_consequences
''But instead of being farmland there, now it's a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest.	distant_historical
More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas.	distant_historical
Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion.	cause_general
Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers' paths after the 1993 flood.	distant_anecdotal
''That was the milestone for us,'' Mr. Busch said.	distant_anecdotal
''At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, 'Look, we've learned our lesson: no more development.'	distant_anecdotal
Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.''	distant_anecdotal
He continued, ''We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.''	distant_anecdotal
Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights.	distant_evaluation
Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County.	distant_anecdotal
''They all took the buyout,'' Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood.	distant_anecdotal
''I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn't make enough money to buy anything decent.''	distant_anecdotal
Today, Mrs. Hulst's trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks.	distant_anecdotal
Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders.	cause_general
''We'll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn't back up,'' she said.	distant_anecdotal
Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers, St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations.	distant_evaluation
''People have a tendency to locate near water,'' Mr. Dooley said.	distant_evaluation
''These people vote; they pay taxes.	distant_evaluation
It's kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, 'You all ought to get out of here.'	distant_evaluation
''	distant_evaluation
''No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,'' said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region.	distant_evaluation
The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding.	distant_expectations_consequences
But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding.	distant_expectations_consequences
Levees constrict a river's path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow.	distant_evaluation
After touring empty homes that still bear the scars of Hurricane Katrina, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said Friday that bureaucratic red tape was ''strangling people'' trying to rebuild here, and proposed steps to speed money to current and former residents of the city.	main
''She hasn't had much support from her counterpart; let me just lay it on the table here.''	distant_evaluation
Calls to Mr. Vitter's offices were not returned last night.	cause_general
At one point, Mrs. Clinton visibly bristled after walking through the home of Gerard Washington, in the Broadmoor district, and hearing him tell of being ripped off by contractors and strung along by government relief programs.	distant_evaluation
Broadmoor is one of the areas that benefited from the fund-raising efforts led by former President Bill Clinton and the first President Bush.	cause_general
''I'm counting on you as president to come through for us,'' Mr. Washington told Mrs. Clinton outside his half-rehabilitated home.	distant_expectations_consequences
She replied: ''I'll help you as president; count on it.	distant_expectations_consequences
I'm not going to stand for stuff like this.	distant_expectations_consequences
It makes me furious.''	distant_evaluation
They shook hands, and Mrs. Clinton departed, saying, ''God bless you.''	cause_general
Mr. Washington was one of several African-American city residents who said they planned to vote for Mrs. Clinton for president.	distant_expectations_consequences
Most of Mrs. Clinton's ideas involved waiving or streamlining federal rules for distributing relief money, chiefly through the Federal Emergency Management Agency, that require multistep paperwork, matching dollars or specific purchases.	main
The most common reasons given were her well-publicized support for hurricane recovery efforts, and her political partnership with Mr. Clinton; several voters said they were excited by the idea of his returning to the White House.	distant_evaluation
The senator, a New York Democrat seeking her party's presidential nomination in 2008, has also proposed legislation to make FEMA an independent, cabinet-level agency.	cause_general
Some of Mrs. Clinton's ideas, like eliminating a rule that states and cities provide a match to federal emergency dollars, were the sort that community leaders have pushed for some time, and she drew applause from residents who met with her to express frustration about the pace of recovery here.	distant_evaluation
''I am embarrassed by our failures as a nation; this administration has really let our country down,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
''Let's cut this red tape.	distant_evaluation
It's strangling people.''	distant_evaluation
Mrs. Clinton also took a glancing shot at Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, a Republican who she said was not working hard enough with Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, on hurricane issues.	distant_evaluation
''She has been waging a lonely battle,'' Mrs. Clinton said.	distant_evaluation
THE Big Top toy store on East Hartsdale Avenue reopened May 11 just as signs were being stripped from the shuttered HSBC Bank nearby.	cause_general
Kar C. Kwok, owner of K. Fung's, a Chinese restaurant, said he was unsure how he would come up with the $250,000 to $300,000 needed to make repairs.	distant_anecdotal
Water filled the basement of the establishment and reached more than six inches high in the first-floor dining room.	distant_anecdotal
Flooring was destroyed, furniture and restaurant equipment was ruined and mold is beginning to grow in the basement.	distant_anecdotal
His insurance did not cover the damage.	distant_anecdotal
''I want to stay,'' he said, ''but I have no idea how I will do that.''	distant_anecdotal
Several merchants who had applied for low-interest loans with the Federal Emergency Management Agency have yet to hear back.	cause_general
But it was unlikely a loan would come close to covering his damage, Mr. Kwok said.	distant_anecdotal
Other businesses were moving as fast as possible to reopen.	cause_general
But every passing day means another day with no income and the possibility that customers will take their business elsewhere.	distant_evaluation
''It's pretty devastating for everybody, even those businesses that are open,'' said Craig Cupani, owner of Lia's, an Italian restaurant, which hoped to reopen this week.	distant_anecdotal
Both businesses were closed after being damaged by flooding in the northeaster that ripped through Westchester on April 15.	cause_specific
Mr. Cupani noted that although all the businesses that were flooded are on the same side of the street, businesses on the other side, which have remained open, are also suffering because some customers -- like those who go to the fitness center -- are not coming to the area.	distant_anecdotal
The shuttered shops had also hurt strides made in generating business in the area, he said, which has struggled in recent years to compete against large retailers on nearby Central Avenue.	distant_anecdotal
To try to draw more people to the area, Paul J. Feiner, the Greenburgh supervisor, has proposed opening a satellite library in a vacant site like the old HSBC building.	distant_expectations_consequences
Many residents and merchants welcome the idea.	distant_evaluation
''It's one block, but it's an incredibly useful block,'' said Shula Darviche, a marketing consultant who lives in the neighborhood.	distant_anecdotal
''It really adds to the life in this little suburb.''	distant_anecdotal
Beyond retaining customers, merchants are also worried about the need to address the conditions that led to the flooding.	distant_evaluation
Some charge that drainage behind their stores is inadequate and want local officials to address the problem.	distant_evaluation
''We've got to make sure this doesn't happen again,'' said Mr. Cupani, who along with other merchants, has hired an engineer to examine the issue.	distant_anecdotal
''There's no way anybody is going to recoup from another one of these.''	distant_anecdotal
While owners of the Big Top decided to reinvest, HSBC is taking its business elsewhere, a reflection of the struggling state of the shopping district that runs along the street above the Hartsdale train station.	cause_general
BUSINESSES	error
''As one business goes, it takes away some business to me,'' said Munish Kapur, owner of the Big Top, which depends heavily on foot traffic.	distant_anecdotal
''We still don't know how many of the closed businesses will go and how many will stay.	distant_anecdotal
That's a concern.''	distant_anecdotal
More than a month after heavy rains flooded many parts of the county, about a half-dozen businesses along the avenue are still closed -- including at least two restaurants, a bagel shop, a bakery, a fitness center and a green market.	main
The two that have completely reopened -- Tip Top and Hartsdale Wine and Liquors -- are watching closely to see if shoppers return.	distant_anecdotal
''I'm a little nervous,'' said Robert Troy, the wine shop owner.	distant_anecdotal
To the Editor:	error
I urge Mamaroneck officials not to hold their breath.	distant_evaluation
PAUL FEINER Town Supervisor, Greenburgh	error
I read, with interest, your article ''Mamaroneck Grasps for Way to Avoid a Repeat'' (April 22), about the flooding problems.	cause_specific
Reminds me of Greenburgh!	distant_evaluation
A few years ago residents of Babbitt Court in the town of Greenburgh expressed frustration at the studies and meetings held to address the problem of flooding on their street.	distant_historical
Working with the town and federal governments, they secured a grant to uplift some of the homes on their street -- putting the homes on stilts.	distant_historical
The homes don't get flooded anymore.	cause_general
There is less property damage, and less stress on residents.	distant_evaluation
I hope one day the Army Corps of Engineers will solve the flooding problem near the river.	distant_expectations_consequences
Until that time comes, we've come up with a less expensive and ambitious plan that has helped some families.	main
State and local governments in Gulf Coast areas devastated by the 2005 hurricanes will no longer be required to pay 10 percent of the cost of repairing their roads, schools and other public works, under a provision of the emergency war spending bill approved by Congress on Thursday night.	main
That in itself will save some money, and will also hasten rebuilding.	distant_expectations_consequences
''This definitely puts the foot down on the accelerator in terms of speeding up the recovery,'' Mr. Kopplin said.	distant_evaluation
Under a law enacted by Congress in 1988, the Federal Emergency Management Agency can pay for 90 percent of infrastructure repairs after significant natural disasters.	cause_general
The requirement that state and local governments match that by paying the other 10 percent was intended to prevent fraud and waste by giving them a financial stake in their own projects.	cause_general
Louisiana intends to use money freed by the new waiver to help shore up its federally financed program helping homeowners rebuild their houses.	distant_expectations_consequences
That program, called the Road Home, is facing an eventual shortfall of about $2.9 billion, according to state estimates.	cause_general
More families have applied than the state anticipated, and have qualified for higher-than-expected grants.	cause_general
New Orleans has been counting on the waiver to help pay for its own rebuilding plan.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mayor C. Ray Nagin issued a statement yesterday saying the city was very pleased with the exemption, which he called critical to recovery.	distant_evaluation
Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, had made a concerted effort to get Congress to waive the 10 percent requirement.	cause_general
Louisiana officials had said that the need to cover some of the repair costs themselves, instead of having the federal government assume all costs, was significantly slowing their recovery efforts.	distant_evaluation
Ms. Landrieu was able to get a waiver included in a previous version of the war spending bill as well, but that measure was vetoed by President Bush because of its troop-withdrawal timetable.	cause_specific
Although the federal government eliminated the payment requirement after past disasters like Sept. 11 and Hurricane Andrew, the administration refused to do so after the 2005 hurricanes, arguing that it had given Louisiana enough federal money to cover the local governments' share of the costs.	cause_general
But Louisiana officials said that this money came with significant strings attached and that qualifying for it put a huge regulatory burden on overwhelmed local governments, which have applied for federal assistance for about 20,000 projects so far.	distant_evaluation
States and localities also said they simply did not have the money to put up a 10 percent match.	distant_evaluation
The waiver is not the only help that the newly enacted law affords the gulf region.	cause_general
The measure also includes $1.3 billion for repairs to levees along the Mississippi River around New Orleans, and permits the federal government to forgive repayment of disaster loans made to the communities affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.	main
In addition, it provides for grants for various recovery programs in the region, including one to recruit teachers in Louisiana and another to fight crime by helping New Orleans pay for more police officers and prosecutors.	main
They praised Congress for making the change, which they estimated would save the state and its affected communities at least $775 million.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mississippi will also benefit from the change, to a lesser degree.	cause_general
The Bush administration had earlier opposed lifting the requirement, but after long and intense negotiations with Congress over the much larger provision financing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the president signed the bill yesterday.	cause_general
''We are thrilled,'' Gov.	distant_evaluation
Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana said in a telephone interview.	distant_evaluation
The exemption, Ms. Blanco said, will particularly help local governments crippled by the storms.	distant_expectations_consequences
In addition to the direct financial advantage, the waiver will reduce the paperwork that local governments must complete to get federal financing for infrastructure, said Andy Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority.	distant_expectations_consequences
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha is “interested in politics,” he said on Monday, a sign that he sees a public role for himself after a general election promised next year.	main
Technically Prayuth cannot stand for election under the constitution, because he would have had to resign from his post since 2017 to do so.	cause_general
Prayuth said on Monday he did not intend to quit as junta chief.	distant_evaluation
However, Prayuth could return as prime minister if a political party nominated him as its frontrunner.	distant_expectations_consequences
The constitution offers Prayuth another route.	cause_general
He could be chosen as an “outside prime minister” if 500 members, or two-thirds of the House of Representatives and the Upper House Senate, voted to kickstart the process, if the winning party’s candidate failed to get enough votes.	distant_expectations_consequences
Watana Muangsook, a member of the opposition Puea Thai Party, welcomed Prayuth’s participation in the next election but said he must first give up his post as junta chief.	distant_evaluation
“You may join whichever party, but you should resign as junta chief to lay down your weapons and play fair like everybody else,” Watana told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
The junta, formally known as the National Council for Peace and Order, has promised to relax its curbs on political activities before the vote, to allow political parties to complete administrative tasks between September and December.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Thailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha arrives for a meeting in Bangkok, Thailand, April 19, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Jorge Silva/Pool	error
May next year is the most recent deadline Prayuth’s junta has set for a vote its critics hope will return Thailand to civilian rule after more than four years of military rule, although it has repeatedly pushed back the timeline.	distant_expectations_consequences
Critics say the military aims to maintain its grip on power beyond the election and they point to a military-backed constitution that limits the authority of civilian politicians.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I can say right now that I am interested in politics,” Prayuth, who has previously sidestepped questions about his political future, told reporters on Monday.	main
“Because I love my country, like all Thai people,” he said.	distant_evaluation
He did not elaborate on his comments.	cause_general
As army chief, Prayuth, 64, led a 2014 coup that ousted a civilian government to end a prolonged period of sometimes deadly unrest.	distant_historical
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Sweden’s anti-immigration party - shunned by the political mainstream - insisted on Thursday it would block the formation of a new government unless it gets a say in policy - leaving parliament deadlocked three weeks after a general election.	main
If he fails there will be a new election within three months.	distant_expectations_consequences
After his meetings, Norlen said he had not asked any potential candidate to try and put together a government yet.	cause_general
“My judgment is that we will probably need one or more rounds ... of discussions with the partly leaders,” he told reporters.	distant_evaluation
“They are not all in agreement on how things should proceed.”	distant_evaluation
Lofven and Alliance leader Ulf Kristersson are both claiming the right to build a new minority administration.	cause_general
Kristersson said he wanted to form a government consisting of his Moderate party and its Centre, Liberal and Christian Democrat allies.	distant_expectations_consequences
With 143 members of parliament, that grouping is one seat smaller than Lofven’s center-left bloc.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Centre and Liberal parties ruled out such an arrangement unless it was backed by Lofven’s Social Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I do not plan to be a hostage to the Sweden Democrats in a government,” Centre Party leader Annie Loof told reporters.	distant_evaluation
Lofven, whose Social Democrats are the biggest party in parliament, is hoping that the Centre and Liberal parties will support him if their only other option is a deal with the Sweden Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
Swedish Speaker of Parliament Andreas Norlen (L) meets with Swedish Christian Democrats party leader Ebba Busch Thor in his room at the Parliament in Stockholm, Sweden, September 27, 2018.	error
But splitting the Alliance would probably consign the center-right to years in opposition and few parties have fared well after cooperating with the Social Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (9 Images)	error
Support for the Green Party dipped to 4.4 percent at the most recent election, down from 6.9 percent after four years in a coalition with Lofven, their worst result since 1991 when they dropped out of parliament.	cause_general
The Centre party slumped in polls after backing a Social Democrat government in the early 1990s.	distant_historical
Sweden Democrat leader Jimmie Akesson said he would prefer a government of the Moderates, the biggest Alliance party, and the Christian Democrats, but that they would have to his party a say in policy to get his support.	distant_expectations_consequences
TT News Agency/Henrik Montgomery via REUTERS	error
The Sweden Democrats have grown in popularity since entering parliament in 2010 and hold the balance of power after winning 62 seats in the 349-member house at a Sept. 9 election.	cause_general
They voted with the center-right, opposition Alliance bloc to sink the government of Social Democrat prime minister Stefan Lofven on Tuesday.	cause_general
But at consultations on forming a new administration on Thursday, said they would not back an Alliance government.	distant_evaluation
(GRAPHIC: Swedish election scenarios - tmsnrt.rs/2p45tJh)	error
“We will not, either actively or passively, support a government that does not give us influence,” Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson told reporters after meeting the speaker of parliament, who met all party leaders on Thursday.	main
The speaker, Andreas Norlen, has four attempts at picking a prime minister who can get support from parliament - a process that could take weeks.	cause_general
BERLIN (Reuters) - Senior German conservatives on Sunday backed Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bid for re-election as chairwoman of her Christian Democrats (CDU) at a party congress in December, lending her much needed support as in-fighting weakens her authority.	main
“The change at the top of the parliamentary faction could stabilize the chancellor,” Schaeuble said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“There has been an uneasy mood within the union for some time.	distant_evaluation
It is possible that (Brinkhaus’ election) was an opportunity to vent out.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The CDU and CSU have struggled to maintain a united front on immigration policy and the fate of the scandal-hit chief of the domestic spy agency.	distant_evaluation
In the summer, CSU leader and Interior Minister Horst Seehofer brought the government to the brink of collapse with a threat to turn back migrants at the border with Austria if they had already applied for asylum elsewhere in the European Union.	cause_general
Seehofer, the fiercest critic of Merkel’s decision in 2015 to open Germany’s borders to almost one million, mainly Muslim asylum seekers, told Welt am Sonntag that he backed the chancellor’s bid to be re-elected as CDU chairwoman.	main
“Angela Merkel has announced that she would like to run for the party’s chairmanship.	cause_general
I think it is the right decision,” Seehofer said.	main
Merkel said on Saturday that her conservatives must end their in-fighting to reverse slides in the polls before two regional elections this month.	distant_expectations_consequences
Polls indicate the CSU will lose its absolute majority in the Bavarian parliament in an election in the southern state on Oct. 14, bleeding support to the ecologist Greens and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party.	distant_expectations_consequences
German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrives for the German Unification Day celebrations at the Berlin Cathedral in Berlin, Germany, October 3, 2018.	error
Support for Merkel’s CDU is also projected to fall, to around 29 percent, in an election in the state of Hesse two weeks later.	distant_expectations_consequences
The party won 10 percentage points more in the election five years ago in Hesse, where it governs with the Greens.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch/File Photo	error
Merkel has vowed to serve her full term in office until the end of the legislative period in 2021, and has said she will run to remain as chairwoman.	distant_expectations_consequences
Her CDU party holds a vote on the chairmanship at a congress in the northern city of Hamburg in early December.	distant_expectations_consequences
Merkel suffered an unexpected blow to her authority last month when her conservatives cast out long-standing ally Volker Kauder as head of the parliamentary party, reflecting rising discontent with her 13-year-old leadership.	distant_evaluation
The upset victory of Ralph Brinkhaus, described as a “political thunderbolt” and “the beginning of the end of the Merkel era” by opposition leaders, was widely taken as a sign that lawmakers want more say in shaping the policies of her fourth and final government.	distant_evaluation
Brinkhaus’ election by the conservative block comprising Merkel’s CDU and their Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU) sister party - know as the Union - was a clear sign of lawmakers’ frustration with her ruling style.	distant_evaluation
But parliament speaker and former finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told mass-selling Bild am Sonntag newspaper that Brinkhaus election could bring some stability to the conservative block rocked by in-fighting over immigration.	distant_expectations_consequences
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (Reuters) - As a final vote nears on U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, key undecided Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski is under growing pressure from diverse groups in her home state of Alaska.	main
That means if all the Democrats vote against Kavanaugh, Trump could not afford to have more than one Republican oppose his nominee, with Vice President Mike Pence casting a tiebreaking vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Alaska’s complicated politics will certainly be a factor in Murkowski’s decision.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trump carried Alaska by 15 percentage points in 2016 and polls show Republicans strongly back Kavanaugh’s nomination.	cause_specific
A Reuters/Ipsos poll of U.S. adults released on Wednesday found that 70 percent of Republicans supported Kavanaugh.	cause_specific
On the other hand, the Alaska Federation of Natives, the state’s largest indigenous organization and one of Murkowski’s most powerful supporters, condemned the nomination.	cause_specific
Alaska Natives, who make up about 15 percent of the state’s population, have expressed concern that Kavanaugh’s court decisions reflect a willingness to erode indigenous and tribal rights.	cause_specific
Alaska Governor Bill Walker, an independent, and Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott, a Democrat, have also called for Kavanaugh to be rejected, criticizing him on Alaska Native rights, healthcare and other issues.	cause_specific
Local activists have held regular protests outside Murkowski’s offices in Anchorage, Juneau and Fairbanks.	cause_specific
Last week, someone projected a message on a prominent downtown Anchorage hotel: “YO LISA, FIND ANOTHER JUDGE.”	cause_specific
The Alaska Native groups also fear Kavanaugh would endanger Obamacare, a vital part of the tribes’ healthcare coverage, and undermine crucial environmental protections.	cause_specific
FILE PHOTO: U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh meets with Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., August 23, 2018.	error
“Alaska Natives have a long and proud history of defending this land and its resources.	distant_evaluation
We have no intention of staying silent now,” Richard Peterson, president of the Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska, said in a letter to Murkowski.	distant_evaluation
‘UNPRECEDENTED’ CALL VOLUME	main_consequence
A variety of national outside groups have also targeted Murkowski, along with other moderate Republican senators, Susan Collins of Maine and Jeff Flake of Arizona.	cause_general
The groups hope to find a receptive audience in Murkowski, who has a reputation for thinking independently and not voting strictly on partisan lines.	distant_expectations_consequences
She is one of the few Senate Republicans who supports abortion rights and was one of three Senate Republicans who joined Democrats last year to defeat a Republican bill repealing the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare.	cause_general
In 2010, she won re-election by waging a write-in campaign after losing in the Republican nominating contest to a candidate from the conservative Tea Party movement.	distant_historical
Pro-Kavanaugh forces in Alaska have not been as visible as the Kavanaugh opponents, although the National Rifle Association gun rights lobby ran television advertisements on his behalf in Alaska and other groups have paid for grassroots organizing.	cause_specific
Murkowski told public radio in Alaska on Tuesday she was getting an “unprecedented” number of calls and emails about the nomination from both sides.	main_consequence
“We’ve hired additional staff to do nothing more than to sort through the volume of calls that have come in overnight,” she said.	main_consequence
REUTERS/Chris Wattie/File Photo	error
The Alaska Grassroots Alliance, a liberal state activist group, has been holding anti-Kavanaugh rallies and appealing to Murkowski’s reputation for independence.	cause_specific
“I’m asking her to show up for us, not for her party as a rubber stamp, but for Alaskans with real concerns about the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh,” Jeff King, a four-time champion of the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, told a recent rally outside Murkowski’s Anchorage office.	distant_expectations_consequences
Murkowski is one of a handful of U.S. senators who will decide the outcome of the extremely close confirmation battle over Kavanaugh.	distant_evaluation
The nominee angrily denied allegations of sexual misconduct in a hearing last Thursday before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee.	cause_general
Liberal and women’s rights groups have clogged Capitol Hill hallways and filled Alaskan airwaves with advertisements to crank up the pressure on Murkowski, while Alaska Native groups have rallied outside her home-state offices.	cause_specific
While she has mostly been tight-lipped about her thinking as the partisan war on Kavanaugh’s nomination rages, Murkowski on Wednesday described as “inappropriate” comments by President Donald Trump on Tuesday mocking university professor Christine Blasey Ford, who accused Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her when they were high school students in 1982.	distant_evaluation
In making her decision, “I am taking everything into account,” Murkowski told reporters.	distant_evaluation
Trump’s fellow Republicans control the Senate by a 51-49 margin.	cause_general
PARIS (Reuters) - Emmanuel Macron ripped up the French political textbook with surprising ease last year, but repeating the feat in Europe next year is a tall order when there are decades of perceived French arrogance to overcome.	distant_evaluation
Merkel and Macron have forged a strong relationship, Anglade said, dismissing the suggestion Macron’s election strategy may put him on a collision course with the German chancellor, who is keeping faith with the EPP.	distant_expectations_consequences
But he acknowledged Germany was “the most complicated issue” for the coming elections.	distant_evaluation
“Obviously, from this point of view, our interests are not necessarily aligned,” Anglade said.	distant_evaluation
If Macron’s future alliance is able to edge out the EPP to become the biggest grouping, it would hand him more influence over the pick of top EU jobs and more influence on EU legislation.	distant_expectations_consequences
No small feat for someone who only two years ago set up his own movement and blew apart France’s two-party system.	distant_historical
‘NUMBER ONE FORCE’	distant_expectations_consequences
Macron’s lieutenants have held talks with Italy’s center-left Democratic Party, which currently sits in the S&D group, and European Council leader Donald Tusk’s Civic Platform in Poland, which is aligned with the EPP.	cause_general
They have also met the leaders of Spain’s centrist Ciudadanos and Guy Verhofstadt, the leader of ALDE.	cause_general
On Thursday, his party chief Christophe Castaner penned an opinion column in European newspapers with Italy’s former prime minister Matteo Renzi, Verhofstadt and others.	cause_general
“We must act now, or the European project will stall.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade speaks during an interview with Reuters at a cafe in Paris, France, September 25, 2018.	error
Worse, it could be suffocated by nationalist and populist forces,” they co-wrote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Anglade said Macron’s movement Republic on the Move (LREM) and ALDE shared “intellectual proximity”.	distant_evaluation
“But if we want to become the number one force, or a major force in the European parliament, we need to go beyond the ALDE base and be able to rally political parties which were once in the EPP, the Socialists or the Greens, in a new structure.”	distant_expectations_consequences
“There are a certain number of parties which went to the EPP or the Socialists at one point, not because they were conservatives or Socialists, but because that’s where power was and how you got posts,” Anglade said.	distant_evaluation
Macron has not designated a leader for his European ambitions and in another challenge to Brussels has said he will not present a “spitzenkandidat” - a group’s candidate to become the head of the European Commission.	cause_general
“The spitzenkandidat today is a man or a woman named by a political party in a dark room in Helsinki, Riga or wherever, who has no strong legitimacy,” Anglade said.	distant_evaluation
Macron will seek businessmen, professionals and political novices to run for parliament on his party’s national ticket, just as he did in France last year, Anglade said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Brussels has often been seen as a place to send political has-beens and candidates who failed at home.	distant_evaluation
“We won’t send the losers of the 2017 legislatives.	distant_expectations_consequences
And we won’t send those we’re fed up with in Paris to exile in Brussels,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Richard Lough	error
Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, Macron’s European election emissary, has a front-seat role in persuading parties from across the left-right divide to rally behind the president’s drive to redraw the landscape and make Europe relevant again.	distant_evaluation
“Creating trust in politics takes time, creating trust in European politics takes more time, but creating trust in European politics when you’re French takes even more time,” the 31-year old soft-spoken lawmaker told Reuters in an interview.	distant_evaluation
Macron, who paints next May’s European elections as a battle between progressive, pro-EU reformists and populist, far-right nationalists, is out to break the old left-right duopoly that has dominated European politics in recent decades.	main
He has tasked Anglade with seeking out future alliance partners from the existing conservative European People’s Party (EPP) and center-left Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D), as well as the smaller centrist ALDE group, to form a new movement inside the European Parliament.	main_consequence
“We see the system as dysfunctional and it needs rebuilding, but there’s no arrogance in our approach, we’re not here to say we’ll destroy everything because we’re the best.”	distant_evaluation
For all the professed humility, Macron is attempting nothing less than a brutal reshaping of the current political order in Brussels, just as he achieved in France, and a direct challenge to Europe’s most powerful leader, Germany’s Angela Merkel.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Political parties in Britain should be forced to reveal how many women and minorities they put up for election to parliament, lawmakers and campaigners said on Wednesday.	main
Speaking at a round-table event hosted by the Centenary Action Group, lawmakers from the three main British parties said they had run up against sexist assumptions and stereotypes when forging their political careers.	distant_evaluation
Nicky Morgan, a member of parliament (MP) with the ruling Conservative Party, said when she first put herself forward, the members “still had a concept of what a candidate looked like as male, often married with children”.	distant_evaluation
Jo Swinson, the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats, said she had been quizzed about whether she planned to have children when competing against a man with a young family.	distant_evaluation
“The gender pay gap has put pressure on companies – people are asking questions and I think we need the same thing with political parties,” she added.	distant_evaluation
Britain stands at number 39 in an international index charting women’s representation in parliaments, below Rwanda, Cuba and Bolivia.	cause_general
Campaigners said forcing parties to be more transparent would increase pressure on them to nurture female candidates and those from minority backgrounds.	distant_expectations_consequences
Labour MP Dawn Butler said that would result in a “more robust type of policy”.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s important to have that intersectionality, to have different voices, not people who all went to the same school and have got all the same friends,” she said.	distant_evaluation
They said the government should take action after a recent law compelling many British companies to share the gap between how much they paid male and female staff provoked debate and pledges of change.	cause_specific
“We don’t have equal representation in politics and there’s a distance between citizens and politics as a result,” said Helen Pankhurst, the granddaughter of British suffragette campaigner Sylvia Pankhurst.	distant_anecdotal
“There’s a double standard, or a bit of hypocrisy, if you demand accountability elsewhere and aren’t accountable yourself,” Pankhurst told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	distant_anecdotal
Despite sex discrimination being outlawed in the 1970s, women hold just 208 of the 650 seats in the House of Commons and are also under-represented in senior business roles.	cause_general
Just over a quarter of the House of Lords upper chamber members are women.	cause_general
Campaigners have called on the government to bring into force existing legislation that would compel parties to make public how many of their candidates are women.	main_consequence
The Government Equalities Office declined to comment, saying in a statement that it “continues to work on supporting groups to participate in politics”.	cause_general
Politicians compete ahead of five-yearly elections to be chosen as a candidate for their party, with the final decision taken by party members in the local constituency.	cause_general
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Swedish political parties face weeks of haggling to form a government after voters delivered a hung parliament on Sunday, with the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats saying they hold the balance of power.	main
CENTER-RIGHT MINORITY RULE	distant_expectations_consequences
The Alliance of the Moderates, Centre, Liberals and Christian Democrats looks set to be slightly smaller than the center-left.	distant_expectations_consequences
But it will hope for backing from the Sweden Democrats to oust Prime Minister Stefan Lofven and to install Moderate leader Ulf Kristersson as his replacement.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, a formal agreement with the Sweden Democrats would very likely see the Centre and Liberal parties, who want looser immigration policies, jump ship.	distant_expectations_consequences
It is not clear whether the Centre and Liberal parties would take part in a government that had no formal support from the Sweden Democrats but in practice relied on their votes to install a prime minister.	cause_general
On Monday, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson invited the Moderates and Christian Democrats to formal negotiations but was quickly rebuffed.	cause_general
Akesson said his party would vote against any government that did not give it a say in policy.	distant_expectations_consequences
SOCIAL DEMOCRATS AND GREENS CLING ON	distant_expectations_consequences
The Social Democrats and Greens could retain power in the unlikely event that Prime Minister Lofven survives a mandatory vote on whether to replace him.	distant_expectations_consequences
Lofven said he would remain in office in the coming weeks and called for cooperation across the political divide.	distant_expectations_consequences
Front pages of Swedish newspapers are seen a day after day after the general election, in Stockholm, Sweden, September 10, 2018.	error
When voting for a prime minister in parliament, a proposal is passed unless a majority of all 349 lawmakers vote against.	cause_general
This has allowed minority governments to rule.	cause_general
The Alliance would need the Sweden Democrats to back a vote to oust Lofven and install Kristersson.	cause_general
A GRAND COALITION	distant_expectations_consequences
The Alliance could join a grand coalition with the Social Democrats and possibly the Greens to exclude the Sweden Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Left Party, Sweden’s former Communist party, would also be left out.	distant_expectations_consequences
But the Moderates - the biggest party in the Alliance - are not interested in cooperating with the Social Democrats and such a deal would also raise questions about democratic accountability.	distant_expectations_consequences
Voters might see the Sweden Democrats as the country’s only opposition party.	distant_expectations_consequences
MODERATE ONE-PARTY RULE	distant_expectations_consequences
The Moderates could form a one-party government but that would require support from the Sweden Democrats as well as the smaller center-right parties.	distant_expectations_consequences
TT News Agency/Hanna Franzen via REUTERS	error
Moderate leader Kristersson has ruled this out, and the Centre and Liberal parties would probably not go along with the idea if the Sweden Democrats were given any significant say over policy while remaining outside the government.	distant_expectations_consequences
NEW VOTE	distant_expectations_consequences
Parliament opens on Sept. 25.	cause_general
If Lofven is ousted, the speaker is allowed to give a maximum of four prime ministerial candidates the opportunity to form a government.	distant_expectations_consequences
If they all fail, fresh elections must be called.	distant_expectations_consequences
There is no formal time limit for negotiations, but the deadline for the budget is Nov. 15.	cause_general
If no new government is in place by then, the current government, continuing as caretakers, would put forward a budget until a new cabinet can take office.	distant_expectations_consequences
A preliminary allocation of parliamentary seats gave the center-left bloc - uniting the minority governing Social Democrat and Green parties with the Left Party - 144 seats versus 143 for the center-right Alliance bloc.	main
The Sweden Democrats, who want to leave the European Union, won 62 seats, up from 49 in the 349-seat Riksdag where 175 seats are needed to form a majority.	main
Doing a deal with them would give either bloc a majority but the mainstream parties have ruled out cooperating with a party which has roots in the white supremacist fringe.	distant_evaluation
Both blocs have declared themselves victors in the election, but need additional support to form a viable government without the Sweden Democrats, who want influence over immigration policy.	distant_evaluation
There are a number of ways out of the tangle.	distant_evaluation
Election results graphic: tmsnrt.rs/2CDMT4e	error
LJUBLJANA (Reuters) - Slovenia looked set on Monday for a period of political uncertainty on Monday after an inconclusive parliamentary election in which the anti-immigrant Slovenian Democratic Party (SDS) won most seats but fell well short of a majority.	main
MIGRANT QUOTAS	distant_evaluation
Jansa, a two-times former prime minister, said on Sunday the SDS would invite all other parliamentary parties to coalition talks.	distant_expectations_consequences
Parliament must hold its first session within 20 days and the president then has 30 days to nominate a candidate for prime minister.	cause_general
Jansa, who led the government in 2004-08 and in 2012-13, has said he wants to abolish migrant quotas, strengthen the security forces, cut taxes and speed up privatization.	distant_expectations_consequences
Hungary’s Orban has also strongly opposed the European Commission’s attempts to impose quotas on all EU member states to take in migrants following the influx of large numbers of mostly Muslim refugees since 2015.	distant_evaluation
Only the conservative New Slovenia and right-wing Slovenian Nationalist Party have indicated a willingness to join a coalition with the SDS, but together the three would hold only 36 parliamentary seats.	distant_evaluation
The second biggest party in the new parliament is the centre-left List of Marjan Sarec with 13 seats.	cause_general
Sarec said on Sunday he also expected to get a chance to form a government.	distant_expectations_consequences
“A wide centre-left government looks like the baseline scenario, with risks of a new snap election not negligible,” said Alen Kovac, an analyst of Erste Group Research.	distant_expectations_consequences
The prospect of political instability nudged the yield on Slovenia’s 10-year benchmark bond up to 1.192 percent by 1114 GMT, up from 1.149 on Friday, according to Reuters data.	main_consequence
Janez Jansa, leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party (SDS), and his wife Urska cast their votes at a polling station during the general election in Velenje, Slovenia, June 3, 2018.	error
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
“Since it is clear that it will be difficult to form a government coalition and later also hard to keep it together the yield could rise a bit further,” said Saso Stanovnik, chief analyst of investment firm Alta Invest.	distant_expectations_consequences
“However, the yield in the future will mostly depend upon the general conditions in the European Union, which have a direct impact on Slovenia’s exports, and the actions of the European Central Bank,” he added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Exports to other EU states are the main driver of Slovenia’s economy, which the government expects to expand by 5.1 percent this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
It grew by 5 percent in 2017.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Borut Zivulovic	error
The lack of a clear outcome from Sunday’s election dented Slovenian bond prices and the country’s main business forum urged speedy coalition talks to avert any damage to the booming economy.	main_consequence
Slovenian President Borut Pahor will later this week meet SDS leader Janez Jansa, presidential spokeswoman Spela Vovk said, without elaborating.	distant_expectations_consequences
The president has previously said he would nominate the leader of the biggest party as prime minister in the next couple of weeks but Jansa may struggle to win sufficient parliamentary support to lead the next government.	distant_expectations_consequences
The centre-right SDS, which has the support of neighboring Hungary’s nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orban, won 25 of the 90 parliamentary seats but most of the other eight parties have said they will not join a coalition with the SDS.	cause_general
“We hope that a broad coalition can be formed which would include centre-right and centre-left parties and would have a program that would enable further economic growth,” said the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Sonja Smuc.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Political instability or a weak government without a clear development program could mean troubles for the economy and lower economic growth,” she told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia’s general election this week will be an extraordinary contest, pitting a 92-year-old former authoritarian leader and a jailed reformist he fell out with 20 years ago against a prime minister who has been mired in a multi-billion-dollar scandal.	main
That would be a blow for Najib, who has survived an uproar surrounding 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), a state fund that racked up heavy debt after he took power in 2009.	distant_evaluation
The prime minister has consistently denied any wrongdoing over the billions of dollars that were allegedly siphoned off from the state fund and he has been cleared of any offence by Malaysia’s attorney general.	cause_general
FRIENDS AND FOES	distant_evaluation
Under Najib, a skyscraper called The Exchange 106 has come up in Kuala Lumpur that will replace Mahathir’s pet project, the Petronas twin towers, as the tallest on the capital’s skyline.	cause_general
The two buildings are testimony to Malaysia’s transformation from a rural backwater to an industrial nation, but they are also emblems of the bitter rivalry between the two leaders.	distant_evaluation
Mahathir, who ruled with an iron fist for 22 years, was once Najib’s mentor but turned against him over the 1MDB affair and quit the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) party, which represents the country’s Malay majority.	distant_historical
Then, in an even more unlikely change of heart, Mahathir last year buried a feud with Anwar, 70, and the two agreed to join forces to oust Najib.	distant_historical
Mahathir sacked Anwar as his deputy prime minister in 1998.	distant_historical
Anwar then started a movement known as “Reformasi’ - reform - to end UMNO’s race- and patronage-based governance, but he was stopped in his tracks by charges of sodomy and graft, which he denied, but for which he was jailed.	distant_historical
Anwar was imprisoned again in 2015, when Najib was prime minister, after another sodomy charge, which he described as a politically motivated attempt to end his career.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO - A combination photo of Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak and former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad (R) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, January 25, 2016 and March 30, 2017 (R).	error
Mahathir has promised to seek a royal pardon for Anwar if they win the election and, once Anwar is free, to step aside and let his protege-turned-foe-turned-ally become prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
Reformasi supporters have been dismayed by Anwar’s reconciliation with the very man who tried to block their movement, but Anwar’s daughter, lawmaker Nurul Izzah, says the opportunity to defeat Najib’s coalition is what matters most.	distant_evaluation
“It took us many years to get to this point, and if you’re not smart or wise enough to join all these forces together, we might lose the chance at wresting power from BN,” she told Reuters recently.	distant_expectations_consequences
TIGHT RACE	cause_general
The opposition alliance, which counts on urban votes and support from the ethnic Chinese and Indian communities, is hoping Mahathir will draw in rural Malay voters who have long been loyal supporters of BN but are now disillusioned by increased costs of living.	distant_expectations_consequences
A survey released by pollster Merdeka Center last week showed the opposition making gains, but not enough to land a majority of parliament’s seats.	cause_general
It saw Mahathir’s alliance winning 43.7 percent of the popular vote in peninsular Malaysia and BN 40.3 percent.	cause_general
The poll did not cover the Borneo states of Sabah and Sarawak, which have historically been pro-BN although there have been recent signs of a swing away from the government in Sabah.	cause_general
The opposition has complained that a revision of electoral boundaries in March tilted the election in BN’s favor by moving large numbers of opposition-leaning voters into fewer parliamentary constituencies.	distant_evaluation
The Election Commission insists its electoral map changes did not favor the ruling coalition, and the government says there was no political interference in the exercise.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Olivia Harris REUTERS/Lai Seng Sin(R)/File Photos	error
Slideshow (13 Images)	error
Thomas Pepinsky, a Southeast Asia political expert at Cornell University, said that despite the unusual spectacle of a tight election in Malaysia, the outcome is in little doubt.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The strength of the incumbent regime must not be underestimated,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“It retains the legal, infrastructural, and material resources that it has always used to prevail in Malaysia’s controlled elections.”	distant_evaluation
Few doubt that Prime Minister Najib Razak’s Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition, which has ruled Malaysia for the six decades since independence, will triumph in Wednesday’s poll.	distant_expectations_consequences
But a robust challenge from the opposition - spearheaded by nonagenarian Mahathir Mohamad, the country’s longest-serving prime minister, and his one-time protege Anwar Ibrahim - has produced the most hotly contested election yet.	distant_evaluation
“Momentum is with the opposition, but we believe it is unlikely that they will pull off a surprise victory,” said the Eurasia Group consultancy, which put the odds of a win for Mahathir’s Pakatan Harapan (Alliance of Hope) at 15 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the political risk group’s Asia director, Peter Mumford, said there is a danger for the ruling coalition that it will fare worse than the 2013 election, when for the first time it lost the popular vote but still won with 133 of parliament’s 222 seats.	distant_expectations_consequences
Under Malaysia’s simple majority system, the party that gets the most seats in parliament wins even if it does not secure the popular vote.	cause_general
An unconvincing victory would leave Najib, 64, with reduced political clout and he could face pressure from within his party to stand aside ahead of the next election, Mumford said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during a joint news conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel following their meeting in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia May 18, 2018.	error
Trump is under pressure from special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. election and whether there was collusion with Trump’s campaign - something both he and Moscow deny.	cause_general
“In one of our last discussions, Donald said he is concerned about the danger of a new arms race.	cause_general
I agree with him entirely,” Putin said in a short extract released ahead of the full interview, to be broadcast on Monday evening.	distant_evaluation
Apart from mentioning the U.S. withdrawal in 2002 from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, Putin did not elaborate.	distant_historical
Trump made a similarly vague reference to the issue in April, when he said “Stop the arms race?” in a tweet that also mentioned providing “help” for the Russian economy.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin/File Photo	error
VIENNA (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin blamed political ructions in the United States for difficulties in arranging a summit with President Donald Trump, in remarks broadcast on Monday.	main
Trump said in March the two leaders would meet soon.	distant_historical
But since then already fragile ties between Washington and Moscow have been strained further by the conflict in Syria and the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.	cause_general
Putin said last month the proposed summit was beset by problems and was not working out for now.	distant_evaluation
Asked by Austrian broadcaster ORF why it was taking so long to arrange, he said: “You have to ask our colleagues in the USA.	main
In my view it is the consequence of the fierce domestic political contest in the United States.”	main
Putin, who gave ORF an interview ahead of a visit to Austria on Tuesday, did not elaborate.	cause_general
WEST ORANGE, N.J./NORTH AVONDALE, Ohio (Reuters) - Aftab Pureval, a Democrat seeking to unseat a Republican congressman in Ohio, knows the political risks in calling for gun restrictions – and taking on the powerful National Rifle Association, which has spent more than $115,000 supporting his opponent over the years.	distant_evaluation
Nearly all the Democrats in the three dozen most competitive races for the U.S. House of Representatives wrote multiple social media posts touting their support for anti-gun legislation and for the student-led protest, according to a Reuters review of their postings.	cause_general
But many Democrats have modulated their message, avoiding inflammatory terms such as “gun control” and voicing support for basic gun rights with “common-sense” reforms.	distant_evaluation
Political risks remain.	distant_evaluation
In past cycles, advocates for gun safety struggled to match the might of the National Rifle Association (NRA), the leader of the gun-rights lobby, which views any limits as an assault on the U.S. Constitution.	distant_evaluation
Reuters/Ipsos polling data shows gun-rights supporters are particularly motivated to vote in November.	main
“It’s been a big concern for Democratic candidates that a lot of people will support gun control - but won’t make it an issue on which they’ll base their vote,” said University of California-Los Angeles professor Adam Winkler, the author of “Gunfight: The Battle over the Right to Bear Arms in America.”	distant_expectations_consequences
In 2014, the last midterm election, the NRA reported $27 million in independent spending to back candidates who oppose gun limits, compared to $8.6 million by gun-control groups, according to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics.	distant_historical
The NRA did not respond to multiple requests for comment on its strategy for this year’s midterms.	cause_general
Democrats believe now is the time to capitalize on the issue, said Tyler Law, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.	distant_evaluation
“Republican inaction will continue to generate political backlash and help Democrats take back the House,” he said.	distant_evaluation
But after a spate of school shootings, including February’s massacre at a high school in Parkland, Florida, Pureval believes voters in the Republican-leaning district have had enough of congressional inaction.	cause_specific
A spokesman for the Republican Party’s congressional campaign arm, Jesse Hunt, said the politics of gun violence would play out differently in every district and that the party’s candidates would pick their own positions.	distant_expectations_consequences
U.S. Representative Steve Chabot, the Ohio Republican running against Pureval, said he had heard from voters on both sides of the gun issue.	distant_evaluation
“I don’t think anyone knows if it’s going to have an impact” on the election, said Chabot, who is unconvinced more gun restrictions will prevent violence.	distant_evaluation
Democratic congressional candidate Aftab Pureval speaks at a campaign event in Ohio's first congressional district, in North Avondale, Ohio, U.S., June 13, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Tim Reid	error
TARGETING SUBURBAN VOTERS	distant_expectations_consequences
Democrats have long feared that support for gun restrictions would cost them the backing of blue-collar swing voters – the group widely credited with tipping the presidential contest to Republican Donald Trump in 2016.	distant_expectations_consequences
This year, a different voter bloc could help Democrats flip the 23 Republican seats needed to take control of the House: educated, suburban women who might normally lean Republican but see gun violence as increasingly personal, said Stuart Rothenberg, an analyst with the non-partisan website Inside Elections.	distant_expectations_consequences
Reuters/Ipsos polling shows support for gun control has risen over time, from 57 percent of Americans who supported strong or moderate firearms restrictions in 2012 to 68 percent this year.	cause_general
Women are more likely to support restrictions, up from 63 percent in 2012 to 72 percent in 2018.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The leaders that they sent to Washington, D.C., to represent them have had their opportunity time and time again – and time and time again, they have failed,” Pureval, 35, said after a rally with gun-safety activist and former congresswoman Gabby Giffords, who suffered brain damage from a gunshot in 2011.	distant_evaluation
The problem with pushing gun-control in suburban districts is that many are not entirely suburban, said Kyle Kondik, an analyst at the University of Virginia Center for Politics.	distant_evaluation
“A lot of these districts have rural components that are not at all receptive to messages of gun control,” he said.	distant_evaluation
VETERANS FOR GUN CONTROL	distant_evaluation
Many Democrats seeking Republican-held seats have made opposition to the gun lobby a feature of their campaigns.	cause_general
Randy Bryce, an ironworker running in Republican Speaker of the House Paul Ryan’s Wisconsin district, released a television advertisement ahead of next month’s primary in which he fired a rifle and touted his experience in the Army before attacking the “NRA profit machine.”	cause_general
In California, candidate Gil Cisneros has criticized Republican leaders for taking the gun lobby’s “blood money.” In Georgia, national gun safety activist Lucy McBath, whose son was shot to death six years ago, won the Democratic nomination for a competitive seat last week after blasting congressional inaction and the NRA.	distant_evaluation
On policy specifics, however, many Democratic candidates and gun-safety groups have staked out strategically moderate positions.	cause_general
While virtually all Democrats support universal background checks - a policy most gun owners support, polls show - some stop short of embracing an assault-weapons ban.	cause_general
Democratic Party officials say their success at recruiting military veterans this cycle makes it easier to run on gun limits.	distant_evaluation
Democratic House candidate Jason Crow - a veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan - argues that the NRA has stymied reasonable debate on gun policy.	distant_evaluation
A Reuters analysis shows Pureval is among Democrats in the most competitive U.S. congressional races who have embraced gun control in far greater numbers than in 2016, defying the conventional wisdom that doing so is a losing proposition in close contests.	cause_general
“It’s clearer than ever that this public health crisis is not going to get any better while our politicians are bought and paid for by the gun lobby,” said Crow, who supports an assault-weapons ban, expanded background checks and restricting the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines.	distant_expectations_consequences
The NRA has backed Crow’s opponent in Colorado’s competitive sixth congressional district, Republican U.S. Representative Mike Coffman, with more than $114,000 since 2002.	cause_general
In the current campaign, Coffman touts his support for increasing federal funding for mental health and school safety reforms while still opposing any substantive limits on gun sales.	distant_evaluation
The district includes the site of the 2012 movie theater shooting in Aurora that killed 12 people and is near Columbine High School, where 13 people were murdered in a 1999 school massacre.	cause_general
And yet two Democratic state legislators lost their jobs after pushing through a package of gun restrictions following the Aurora shooting.	distant_historical
Voters removed them in recall elections supported by the NRA.	distant_historical
In New Jersey, Republican House candidate Jay Webber supports expanding background checks and allowing judges to confiscate firearms at the request of family members, but has opposed a ban on high-capacity magazines.	cause_general
Democrat Mikie Sherrill, a former Navy pilot, says Webber doesn’t go far enough.	distant_evaluation
She calls for an assault-weapons ban and limits on high-capacity magazines.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
Thirty-eight of the 59 Democrats backed by the party’s “Red-to-Blue” campaign – targeting vulnerable Republican districts – have supported gun restrictions in their official platforms, a review of campaign websites shows.	cause_general
Still, she is careful to emphasize her military experience and support for basic gun rights, underscoring the delicate dance Democrats face in taking up the explosive issue.	distant_evaluation
“I’m not anti-gun.	distant_evaluation
I’m as pro-Constitution as you can get,” she said.	distant_evaluation
But, she added, “The level of gun violence in this country is not normal.”	distant_evaluation
Several others separately released statements calling for limits.	cause_general
At this point in the 2016 election cycle, only four of 36 Red-to-Blue candidates backed gun limits in their platforms, according to a Reuters review of archived campaign websites.	distant_historical
Reuters was unable to examine the websites for two candidates in the program that year.	distant_historical
November’s midterm elections will test whether gun violence has become a defining issue for U.S. voters in the wake of the Parkland shooting that killed 17 students and staff and reignited a nationwide movement for stricter gun laws after a campaign by student survivors.	main
DILI (Reuters) - Former East Timor independence fighter Jose Maria de Vasconcelos was sworn in as prime minister on Friday and pledged to bring unity to the tiny Southeast Asian nation after months of political deadlock.	main
Guterres said the political deadlock had created “fear and uncertainty” and the new government needed to use its mandate to “boost national development, living conditions in the communities throughout the country and develop our economy”.	distant_evaluation
Asia’s youngest democracy has been largely peaceful in recent years following recurrent bouts of political instability that it suffered since independence.	distant_evaluation
But it has struggled to reduce poverty, stamp out corruption and develop its rich oil and gas resources.	distant_evaluation
The energy sector made up about 60 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 and more than 90 percent of government revenue.	distant_historical
Ruak said his new government would improve equality and develop the economy so it does not “just rely on interest from the petroleum fund”.	distant_expectations_consequences
The AMP coalition includes the National Congress for Timorese Reconstruction (CNRT) party of independence hero Xanana Gusmao.	cause_general
Gusmao, the country’s first president and a former prime minister, is expected to be take up a special ministerial post to advise Ruak, an AMP official has said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Former East Timor independence fighter Jose Maria de Vasconcelos, popularly known as Taur Matan Ruak is seen following his swearing in ceremony as the country's new prime minister in Dili, East Timor June 22, 2018.	error
REUTERS /Lirio da Fonseca	error
President Francisco Guterres dissolved parliament in January after former Prime Minister Mari Alkatiri’s minority government faced a legislative stalemate.	distant_historical
De Vasconcelos, known as Taur Matan Ruak, which means Two Sharp Eyes, is a former president.	distant_historical
He belongs to a three-party coalition, the Alliance of Change for Progress (AMP), that won 34 of the 65 seats up for grabs in May’s parliamentary election, the fifth since independence from Indonesia in 2002.	cause_general
During his swearing-in at a restored presidential palace built during Portuguese colonial rule, he promised to “dedicate all my energies and knowledge to the defense and consolidation of independence and national unity”.	main
But illustrating challenges to forming a stable new government, Guterres a day earlier had rejected eight of the ministers put forward by Ruak because of corruption investigations.	cause_general
A 2017 parliamentary election produced no clear winner, with Alkatiri’s Fretilin party winning just 0.2 percent more votes than CNRT, and forming a minority government in the country of 1.2 million people.	distant_historical
BEIRUT (Reuters) - An unlikely bunch of activists have joined forces for Lebanon’s general election in a rare challenge to the sectarian political dynasties and warlords they say left the country in ruins.	main
The old order, built on powerful families and past militia chiefs, has sought to regenerate itself again ahead of this election, with fathers making way for sons or relatives.	cause_general
The newcomers face massive hurdles in the parliamentary contest and could win a handful of seats at best.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yet even that would mark a first.	distant_expectations_consequences
They believe it is time to build on public despair, which sparked the 2015 protest movement when piles of trash festered in the streets for months.	distant_evaluation
The garbage symbolized a corrupt power-sharing system unable to meet basic needs, and later helped Beirut activists do surprisingly well in municipal polls, though they did not win.	distant_evaluation
AN UPHILL STRUGGLE	distant_evaluation
“No doubt, change will not happen in 24 hours, but the elections are one of the main stops,” said Doumit, 42, a consultant who has been pounding the streets of mainly Christian east Beirut for weeks.	distant_evaluation
He is contesting a seat reserved for a Maronite Christian in an assembly which parcels out 128 seats among the many religious sects.	cause_general
Doumit is part of the wide coalition of 66 candidates in nine electoral districts.	cause_general
Smaller blocs are also vowing to fight the establishment across the 15 total districts.	cause_general
Parliament deputy Nadim Gemayel, son of Lebanese assassinated president-elect Bashir Gemayel walks at his office in Beirut, Lebanon April 11, 2018.	error
Some have worked for years to remedy the state’s failures.	cause_general
Others rose to prominence after the trash crisis, or came from local fame like talk show host Paula Yaacoubian.	cause_general
But Doumit’s district was long a stronghold of the Gemayel family and their Kateab party, which was founded by Nadim’s grandfather in 1936 and is now led by his cousin Sami.	cause_general
Nadim’s father, Bashir Gemayel, was assassinated in Beirut after being elected president during Israel’s 1982 invasion.	distant_historical
Images of his father cover the walls of his offices.	cause_general
Gemayel, who is expected to keep the votes of big families with old Kateab ties, has also tried to target young voters.	distant_expectations_consequences
The new faces have a shot as people want alternatives, but their politics falls short, he said.	distant_evaluation
They lack united or clear stances, including on critical issues like the powerful arsenal of Iran-backed Shi’ite Hezbollah, he added.	distant_evaluation
“Soon, civil society will enter parliament,” he said of the independents.	distant_expectations_consequences
“They will not be able to achieve anything more than (we) did.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Mohamed Azakir	error
They will have to share in the establishment.”	distant_expectations_consequences
He said he does not view himself as a political heir but sees nothing wrong with them if they serve Lebanon.	distant_evaluation
PASSING ON THE BATON	distant_expectations_consequences
Gemayel, 35, became an MP in 2009 when his mother, Solange, made way for him.	distant_historical
Outside Beirut, this election will see other establishment families pass on the baton.	distant_expectations_consequences
Druze leader Walid Jumblatt and Maronite politician Suleiman Franjieh are stepping aside for their sons.	cause_general
President Michel Aoun’s two son-in-laws are battling for Maronite seats.	cause_general
The new proportional law has replaced a winner-takes-all system, scrambling alliances among the ruling parties.	distant_expectations_consequences
Critics say the law was still crafted to suit traditional heavyweights, although it may open the door for new faces.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mohanad Hage Ali of the Carnegie Middle East Center said the protest movements after 2015 had failed to produce real political powers that can challenge the old order.	distant_evaluation
A pharmacist, a women’s rights advocate, and a TV celebrity are part of a loose alliance striving for a small but meaningful breakthrough in the vote this Sunday, the first in nine years.	cause_general
Long-time activists accuse some independents of allying with officials close to the establishment to boost their chances.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
First-timers do not enjoy a level playing field.	distant_evaluation
Incumbent parties wield patronage, handing out government jobs, own hospitals and TV stations, or receive regional funding, he said.	distant_evaluation
In the Beirut district where Doumit and Gemayel face off, all is not lost for independents, partly because its relatively well-off electorate can afford to reject the establishment.	distant_expectations_consequences
For the working class though, “their lifeline passes through the traditional parties,” Hage Ali said.	distant_evaluation
Anyone who wants to contest the elite has to offer viable alternatives.	distant_evaluation
“This is where the real competition is, these are the people.”	distant_evaluation
Lebanese elections have never seen this many independent candidates, with dozens from outside the parties that dominate the country.	cause_general
They stand against a political elite which has barely changed since the 1975-90 civil war.	cause_general
They hope a new voting system will help them unseat at least some of the old guard, and want to tap into anger that fueled a wave of anti-government protests in 2015.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Their failure is our chance,” said Gilbert Doumit, who is running in Beirut against the incumbent Nadim Gemayel, the son of one of Lebanon’s most prominent war leaders.	distant_evaluation
“We want to get our causes into the parliament.”	distant_expectations_consequences
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump tried on Tuesday to calm a storm over his failure to hold Russian President Vladimir Putin accountable for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, saying he misspoke in a joint news conference in Helsinki.	main
Republicans and Democrats accused him of siding with an adversary rather than his own country.	distant_evaluation
Despite a televised interview and numerous postings to Twitter, Trump did not correct himself until 27 hours later.	cause_general
Reading mainly from a prepared statement, Trump said on Tuesday he had complete faith in U.S. intelligence agencies and accepted their conclusions.	main
He then veered from his script to hedge on who was responsible for the election interference: “It could be other people also.	distant_evaluation
There’s a lot of people out there.”	distant_evaluation
Related Coverage Germany on Helsinki summit: Dialogue is best way to solve problems	distant_evaluation
His backtracking failed to quell the controversy.	distant_evaluation
Democrats dismissed Trump’s statement as political damage control.	distant_evaluation
“This has to be recognized for what it is, which is simply an effort to clean up the mess he made yesterday, which is beyond the capacity of any short statement to repair,” said Adam Schiff, the senior Democrat on the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee.	distant_evaluation
Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said Trump’s comments on Tuesday were another sign of weakness, particularly his statement that it “could be other people” responsible for the election meddling.	distant_evaluation
Trump stunned the world on Monday by shying away from criticizing the Russian leader for Moscow’s actions to undermine the election and cast doubt on U.S. intelligence agencies, prompting calls by some U.S. lawmakers for tougher sanctions and other actions to punish Russia.	cause_specific
“He made a horrible statement, tried to back off, but couldn’t even bring himself to back off,” Schumer said on the Senate floor.	distant_evaluation
“It shows the weakness of President Trump that he is afraid to confront Mr. Putin directly.”	distant_evaluation
The political firestorm over Trump’s performance in Helsinki	cause_general
has engulfed the administration and spread to his fellow Republicans, eclipsing most of the frequent controversies that have erupted during Trump’s turbulent 18 months in office.	cause_general
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters that Russia was not a friend of the United States and warned against a repeat of election meddling in November’s congressional elections.	distant_evaluation
“There are a lot of us who fully understand what happened in 2016 and it really better not happen again in 2018,” McConnell said.	distant_evaluation
TOUGHER SANCTIONS	distant_expectations_consequences
Some lawmakers said they would seek remedies against Russia in Congress.	distant_expectations_consequences
U.S. President Donald Trump reads from prepared remarks as he speaks about his summit meeting with Russia's President Vladimir Putin at the start of a meeting with members of the U.S. Congress at the White House in Washington, July 17, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Leah Millis	error
“I said the word ‘would’ instead of ‘wouldn’t,’” Trump told reporters at the White House, more than 24 hours after his appearance with Putin.	main
Several senators from both parties backed tougher sanctions on Russia.	cause_general
McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan, who called Russia’s government “menacing,” said their chambers could consider additional sanctions on Russia.	distant_expectations_consequences
Congress overwhelmingly passed a sanctions law last year targeting Moscow for election meddling.	distant_historical
In April, the U.S. Treasury imposed sanctions on Russian officials and oligarchs in one of Washington’s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow.	distant_historical
Even before the allegations of Russian meddling, tensions were high over Moscow’s concerns about NATO expansion, Russian annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and its military backing of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in the Syrian civil war.	distant_historical
Some U.S. lawmakers have suggested passing resolutions voicing support for intelligence agencies, or spending more to enhance election security and prevent cyber attacks.	distant_evaluation
Republican Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said congressional leaders were searching for the most effective response.	distant_evaluation
“We’re trying to figure out what would be an appropriate way to push back,” Corker told reporters.	distant_evaluation
“You know the president can do more damage in 15 minutes at a press conference than we can undo in six months of passing resolutions.”	distant_evaluation
Corker said “the first step” would be hearing from U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who will testify next Wednesday before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The sentence should have been, ‘I don’t see any reason why it wouldn’t be Russia.’”	main
Senate Democrats said they wanted the American interpreter at the Helsinki meeting to testify to Congress on what was said during the private Trump-Putin session.	distant_evaluation
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded last year that the Russian government interfered in the 2016 election campaign and sought to tilt the vote in Trump’s favor, which Moscow has denied.	distant_historical
Special Counsel Robert Mueller is investigating that allegation and any possible collusion by Trump’s campaign.	cause_general
Trump has denied collusion and casts Mueller’s probe as a witch hunt that aims to detract from his election victory.	distant_evaluation
Not all Republicans were angry with Trump’s conduct in Helsinki.	cause_general
“The president did a good thing by meeting with Putin,” Senator Rand Paul told CBS’ “This Morning” program, comments that won him public thanks from Trump on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (14 Images)	error
Russia’s political and media establishment heralded the summit as a victory for Putin in breaking down Western resolve to treat Russia as a pariah.	distant_evaluation
“The West’s attempts to isolate Russia failed,” read the headline in state-run newspaper Rossiisskaya Gazeta.	distant_evaluation
A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted after his news conference with Putin found that 55 percent of registered U.S. voters disapproved of his handling of relations with Russia, while 37 percent approved.	cause_specific
Trump, who had the opportunity to publicly rebuke Putin during the news conference in Helsinki, instead praised the Russian leader for his “strong and powerful” denial of the conclusions of U.S. intelligence agencies that the Russian state meddled in the election.	cause_specific
Standing alongside Putin in Helsinki, Trump told reporters he was not convinced it was Moscow.	cause_specific
“I don’t see any reason why it would be,” Trump said.	cause_specific
Although he faced pressure from critics, allied countries and even his own staff to take a tough line, Trump said not a single disparaging word in public about Moscow on any of the issues that have brought relations between the two nuclear powers to the lowest ebb since the Cold War.	cause_general
ROME (Reuters) - Giuseppe Conte was sworn in on Friday as Italy’s prime minister, heading western Europe’s first anti-establishment government bent on overhauling European Union rules on budgets and immigration.	main
Italy’s future in the euro zone has dominated the political uncertainty of the last week, with President Sergio Mattarella vetoing the coalition’s original choice for economy minister, the eurosceptic economist Paolo Savona.	cause_general
That sparked a breakdown of the coalition’s first attempt to form a government and a furious reaction from the coalition leaders.	cause_general
“COMMON CHALLENGES”	distant_expectations_consequences
Savona had advocated a “plan B” to allow Italy to quit the euro if necessary, spooking financial markets.	cause_general
Despite the souring sentiment towards Europe, two opinion polls this week showed between 60 and 72 percent of Italians did not want to abandon the euro.	cause_general
European Council President Donald Tusk congratulated Conte on his appointment.	distant_evaluation
“To overcome our common challenges, we need unity and solidarity more than ever,” he said in a letter.	distant_evaluation
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker tweeted that the EU’s executive would be “at Italy’s side on its reform path and remain attentive to Italy’s expectations of and proposals for the future of the EU.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Ironically, after the swearing in at the Quirinale Palace, politicians who early this week were calling for Mattarella’s impeachment were to mingle with him at a reception in its manicured Renaissance gardens to mark the Feast of the Republic.	distant_evaluation
Newly appointed Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte rings the bell during his first cabinet meeting at Chigi palace in Rome, Italy, June 1, 2018.	error
Conte, a little-known 53-year-old law professor, is backed by the 5-Star Movement which grew out of a grassroots protest network, and the right-wing League who together have issued a budget-busting agenda of tax cuts and higher welfare spending.	cause_general
REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi	error
Financial markets, which sold Italian assets heavily early this week, have recovered as the prospect of a snap election receded.	cause_general
Italy’s blue-chip share index close up 1.5 percent on the day and Italian bond yields fell for a third day.	cause_general
Italians exasperated by the weeks of political stalemate were willing to give the coalition a chance.	distant_evaluation
“I hope that this government will start well, we will see, but at least we should put them to the test,” said Rome pensioner Alberto Lapira.	distant_anecdotal
Salvini will be the interior minister of the new government and 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio takes a powerful, newly-created joint ministry made up of the labor and industry portfolios.	cause_general
Both leaders will also be deputy prime ministers and Conte may have a tough time proving he can be more than a puppet in the hands of his powerful political sponsors.	distant_expectations_consequences
Salvini has promised to increase deportations of irregular immigrants and revamp the asylum system, while Di Maio will aim to implement 5-Star’s flagship policy of a guaranteed income of up to 780 euros per month for the poor.	distant_expectations_consequences
While markets were relieved by the end of the political uncertainty, their mood will be tested if the coalition begins to follow through on its expensive policy pledges.	distant_expectations_consequences
Italy, with debts totalling more than 130 percent of its economic output, is the most heavily indebted euro zone nation after Greece and is often described as “too big to fail” as the currency bloc could not bail it out if it were to default.	cause_general
The government was formed after three months of political deadlock following inconclusive March 4 elections, with the former rivals striking a last-minute deal on Thursday to avert a fresh vote in high summer amid growing market turmoil.	cause_specific
The 81-year-old Savona enters the government as European affairs minister, less powerful that the economy role but one that still allows him to negotiate with Brussels and speak on EU issues.	cause_general
Slideshow (7 Images)	error
His replacement as economy minister is economics professor Giovanni Tria, a little-known figure who has called for changes to EU budget rules and criticized Germany’s large current account surplus, without suggesting Italy should leave the euro.	cause_general
(For a graphic on 'Italy's 2-year bond yield' click reut.rs/2Jm6oAc)	error
Widespread voter disenchantment has seen anti-establishment parties upset mainstream politics across the continent, including Germany and France, but it is the first time they will run the government of a major western European country.	cause_general
Conte made no comment to reporters after his swearing-in ceremony in the president’s 16th century palace in Rome, in a room with a huge gilt mirror flanked by Italian and EU flags.	cause_general
“I admit that I am choked up and happy,” League leader Salvini said in a tweet which showed him for once formally dressed with his top shirt button done up for the occasion.	distant_evaluation
5-Star and the League have a solid majority in both houses of parliament, where the government will face confidence votes early next week in order to be fully empowered.	cause_general
Italy hosted the European Union’s founding Treaty of Rome 60 years ago, but the once enthusiastically pro-EU Italians have progressively become disenchanted with Europe, blaming its fiscal rules for two decades of economic stagnation.	cause_general
The disaffection has grown in recent years as hundreds of thousands of migrants have landed on Italy’s shores from north Africa, fuelling support for the League which accuses the EU of abandoning Italy to deal with the influx on its own.	cause_general
COLOMBO/MALE (Reuters) - Maldives accused the United States of intimidation on Friday, a day after Washington called for the release of “falsely accused” political prisoners and threatened action if the island’s upcoming election is not free and fair.	distant_evaluation
President Yameen imposed a state of emergency earlier this year, since lifted, to annul a Feb. 1 Supreme Court ruling that quashed convictions against nine opposition leaders and that ordered his government to free those held in prison.	distant_historical
His government has rejected repeated requests by the United Nations, rights groups, and the West to release the president’s rivals and follow fair legal procedures.	cause_general
The European Union in July warned of possible sanctions ranging from travel bans to asset freezes against those in the Maldives responsible for human rights violations and undermining the rule of law.	cause_general
In the election, Yameen will be challenged by veteran lawmaker Ibrahim “Ibu” Mohamed Solih representing the opposition Democratic Party after former president Nasheed, who now lives in exile in Sri Lanka, withdrew as a candidate after the national election commission ruled him ineligible to run.	cause_general
Maldives is due to hold a presidential election on Sept. 23 when incumbent Abdulla Yameen will seek a second five-year term.	main
Heather Nauert, a spokeswoman at the U.S. State Department, said in a statement released on Thursday that the United States was concerned about continued “democratic backsliding in Maldives” ahead of the vote.	distant_evaluation
“We join the international community in calling for the release of falsely accused political prisoners; full implementation of the Maldivian Supreme Court’s February ruling overturning the convictions of opposition members; an end to executive interference in the Parliament and judiciary ...” Nauert said.	distant_evaluation
“Absent Maldives’ return to a democratic path, the United States will consider appropriate measures against those individuals who undermine democracy, the rule of law, and a free and fair electoral process,” she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Maldives’ foreign ministry said on Friday that the United States’ call for the release of ‘falsely accused political prisoners’ was seen as “an act of intimidation” and imposing undue influence on the democratic processes of a sovereign state before a key poll.	distant_evaluation
It urged the United States to allow the Maldivians to freely decide who should lead them on Sept. 23 for the next five years.	cause_general
“It should be noted that the Maldives has no political prisoners, and all those who have been convicted have undergone due process,” it said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
The Indian Ocean tourist island has been beset by political instability since a police mutiny forced its first democratically elected leader, Mohamed Nasheed, to quit in 2012.	cause_general
JAKARTA (Reuters) - About 100 residents of a gritty commercial district of Indonesia’s capital listen intently as a man roars into a microphone: “Are you ready to change our president?	distant_evaluation
The case of Purnama, who had said political rivals were deceiving people by using a verse in the Koran to say Muslims should not be led by a non-Muslim, showed how Islam had crept into politics in the officially secular country.	distant_evaluation
Widodo has pledged to protect Indonesia’s tradition of pluralism and moderate Islam, and he has banned Hizb ut-Tahrir, a hardline group with ambitions for an Islamic caliphate.	cause_general
But a senior government official conceded there are limits to how much the government can control political messaging in mosques.	distant_evaluation
“Any action against this phenomenon is blasted as anti-Muslim so our actions are restricted,” said the official, who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issue.	distant_anecdotal
‘CHANGE THE PRESIDENT’	distant_evaluation
A former furniture maker and Indonesia’s first president from outside the political and military elite, Widodo - known as Jokowi - has remained popular since he took office in 2014.	cause_general
He is widely seen as an honest man of the people, rare for a leader in a country where the political class is scorned as corrupt and aloof, and his push for infrastructure and cutting red tape has burnished his image as a hands-on leader.	cause_general
A recent opinion poll gave him a double-digit lead over the opposition Gerindra party’s Prabowo Subianto, a retired general who is expected to run a second time against Widodo in 2019.	cause_general
Opponents and hardline Muslim groups, including the FPI, accuse Widodo of failing to stem income inequality or deliver higher growth, but the most incendiary attacks have often been around religion and ethnicity.	distant_evaluation
False accusations have spread on social media that the president is not actually Muslim and is a descendant of ethnic Chinese communists.	distant_evaluation
Are you ready for new leadership?”	distant_evaluation
Widodo has sought to strengthen his ties with moderate Islamic leaders and he recently appointed a controversial hardline cleric as a communications adviser.	cause_general
“The only way for the opposition to win is to debunk the argument that Jokowi is one of the masses, and to attack his weakest spot, which is his shyness in showing his religion,” said Achmad Sukarsono, a political analyst at Control Risks.	distant_evaluation
Ahead of local elections across much of the country on Wednesday, the anti-Widodo sentiment has crystallized into a movement called “#GantiPresiden2019” or “Change the president in 2019”.	distant_evaluation
The movement’s founder, Mardani Ali Sera, a member of parliament from a conservative Islamic party, says he has no connection with political messaging in mosques.	distant_evaluation
But he says the majority of those affiliated with his movement are from Islamic parties and the groups that opposed Jakarta’s Christian governor.	distant_evaluation
“We don’t use mosques but if the hashtag and the movement works for you, then go ahead and use it,” Sera, who is active on social media, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
The FPI’s Bamukmin supports the #GantiPresiden2019 movement and said he and other preachers push that message in sermons.	distant_evaluation
“It is the duty of Muslims to try and replace the current president who has betrayed the country and his religion,” he said, accusing Widodo of “selling the country to foreigners” and “empowering communists and deviant religious sects”.	distant_evaluation
NO CAMPAIGNING ALLOWED	cause_general
Indonesia’s election laws prohibit political campaigning in places of worship ahead of polls.	cause_general
People wait to pray at a mosque in Jakarta, Indonesia, June 7, 2018.	error
Vice President Jusuf Kalla told media political discussion is allowed in mosques because they are places of education as well as worship, but campaigning is not.	cause_general
The government can do little to stop such activity in mosques, said a spokesman for the religious affairs ministry.	distant_evaluation
“If there are clerics who use mosques for political interests, it’s better that the public itself persuades them to stop.	distant_evaluation
It is not in the ministry’s capacity to identify or stop them,” said Mastuki, who goes by one name.	distant_evaluation
Tens of millions of Indonesians will vote in 171 elections for mayors, regents, and governors on Wednesday, an important barometer ahead of presidential and parliamentary elections in 2019.	main
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
Opinion polls suggest candidates backed by parties supporting Widodo will win in many parts of Java, Indonesia’s most populous island, but observers will be watching for signs of Islamist influence.	distant_expectations_consequences
One man who attended FPI preacher Bamukmin’s sermon in Jakarta this month, said even if clerics were becoming more political, their congregations were smart enough to decide for themselves.	distant_anecdotal
“People just listen to the good points and ignore the rest,” said Huda, 27.	distant_anecdotal
Picture taken June 7, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Beawiharta	error
But this is not a political rally.	cause_general
Dressed in white robes and a turban, Novel Bamukmin of the Jakarta chapter of the Islamic Defenders Front (FPI), a hardline Islamist group, addresses evening prayers in a mosque.	cause_general
As a year of local and then national elections begins this week in the world’s biggest Muslim-majority country, some Islamic leaders have emerged as the most vocal opponents of President Joko Widodo, who is expected to seek a second term next year.	main
They belong to a loose grouping of Islamists behind protests that culminated in the election defeat and jailing for blasphemy in 2017 of Jakarta’s ethnic-Chinese and Christian governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, a Widodo ally.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-09 19:04:16|Editor: xuxin	error
"It adds, according to the ST, ""If Stack is introduced across the country, the disruption to the national road network will be unprecedented and overwhelming."""	main
The ST also claims the document also warns that a no-deal Brexit could lead to a rise in crime, particularly theft and robbery, as Britain suffers food and drug shortages with the expectation that more people will become ill.	main
It warns that the predominant concern for the police is that food and goods shortages, including National Health Service (NHS) supplies, will result in civil disorder leading to widespread unrest.	main
"The NPCC lead for operations, Chief Constable Charlie Hall, told the ST: ""The police are planning for all scenarios that may require a police response in the event of a no-deal Brexit."	distant_evaluation
At this stage, we have no intelligence to suggest there will be an increase in crime or disorder.	distant_evaluation
"However, we remain vigilant and will continue to assess any threats and develop plans accordingly."""	distant_evaluation
"Louise Haigh, policing minister spokesperson for the main opposition Labour Party, said: ""This is the nightmare scenario long feared."	distant_evaluation
"According to the UK's most senior police officers, a no-deal Brexit could leave Britain on the brink."""	distant_expectations_consequences
This week Prime Minister Theresa May's government will publish the final batch of the more than 80 reports on the possible consequences, and preparations for a no-deal Brexit.	distant_expectations_consequences
In another Brexit development Sunday, Frances O'Grady, leader of Britain's biggest trades union body, the TUC, said that unless May's government struck a deal that working people need with the EU, she would demand a popular vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
O'Grady made her comment in a television interview as trade unionists from around the country gathered in Manchester for their annual congress.	cause_general
"O'Grady called on May's government to extend Britain's EU membership to allow longer for negotiations, adding: ""Time is running out and a crash out of the EU would be an absolute disaster for the people we represent."""	distant_evaluation
One of the country's biggest unions, the GMB, has already announced support for the People's Vote campaign which is demanding a referendum on a final deal brokered between Britain and the EU.	cause_general
More than 300,000 people have so-far signed the petition calling for a so-called People's Vote.	cause_general
Prime Minister May has ruled out a second referendum, saying the government is determined to deliver on the 2016 referendum, in which, by a 52-48 margin, the people of Britain chose to leave the EU.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) -- Contingency plans to deal with any widespread disorder after Britain leaves the European Union (EU) are being drawn up by senior police chiefs, it was reported Sunday in London.	main
The Sunday Times (ST) newspaper says a bombshell document, prepared by the National Police Co-ordination Center, outlines plans to deal with widespread civil disorder at British borders and ports in the event of a no-deal Brexit.	main
"It adds the document warns that the necessity to call on military assistance is ""a real possibility"" in the weeks around Britain's departure from the EU next March."	main
The report says disruption and civil unrest could last for three months either side of the March 29 departure date, rather than the six weeks being planned for by the government.	main
The ST adds that the report is due to be discussed at an upcoming meeting of the National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC), saying some police forces, such as Kent, are expected unilaterally to cancel rest days and leave immediately after March 29, the date Britain will leave the EU.	main
The area covered by Kent Police includes Britain's busiest sea port, Dover, the main link with mainland Europe.	cause_general
"The document warns that Operation Stack, the queuing system for heavy goods vehicles waiting to cross the English Channel when traffic is disrupted at the Port of Dover will have to be ""enacted in every British seaport"" requiring a heavy police commitment."	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-09 20:29:44|Editor: xuxin	error
They have vowed to be tougher on immigration than any other political party in Sweden and want the Scandinavian nation to leave the European Union.	cause_general
In other recent polls, the Sweden Democrats have scored between around 16 and 25 percent, which would signify a significant boost compared to their 2014 election result, when they gained nearly 13 percent of the vote.	cause_specific
Immigration and integration have been central themes in Sweden's shorter-than-usual election campaign, with Election Day now scheduled on the second rather than the third Sunday of September.	cause_general
Another Novus poll, published on Sept. 6, showed that immigration/integration is the second most important issue for Swedish voters, behind healthcare and ahead of schools/education.	cause_general
"Issues like crime and law and order have also dominated debates, especially after a series of car arson attacks in western Sweden last month and with gun violence on the rise, particularly in so-called ""vulnerable areas"" that are marred by social exclusion and relatively high crime rates."	distant_evaluation
However, climate change also shot to prominence following this summer's unusually high temperatures and dramatic wildfires.	distant_evaluation
The Sweden Democrats, who want Sweden, at least temporarily, to stop taking in quota refugees as well as asylum seekers from countries outside of the Nordic region, have dominated the national conversation as the other seven parliamentary parties have positioned themselves against them, vowing not to form a government, or negotiate, with the party that is led by Jimmie Akesson.	distant_evaluation
With neither political bloc set to gain a majority of the vote and neither willing to secure a majority by collaborating with the Sweden Democrats, the government formation question is still up in the air, with widespread talk of tactical voting among Swedes.	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts and commentators speculate that there will be political bargaining across the left-right divide after the votes are counted.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sweden faced a similar deadlock situation in 2014, when a snap election was avoided because the center-right Alliance (made up of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats) decided to abstain from blocking the Social Democrat-Green Party budget in a deal known as the December Agreement.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
"This time around, neither bloc has said they are willing to repeat such a deal, which proved controversial among the electorate and, some analysts say, helped boost support for the Sweden Democrats, cementing their self-appointed status as Sweden's ""only opposition party""."	distant_evaluation
The Sweden Democrats, on their part, could end up with a key role in shaping the next government, even if they are unlikely to be part of one, as they may have the power to bring down any minority government that they oppose.	main
Under Sweden's negative parliamentarian system, a government does not need to have a majority in favor of it, as long as there is no majority against it.	cause_specific
If the current Prime Minister Stefan Lofven is asked by the Speaker of Parliament to form a government following the election and the Sweden Democrats vote against it, the Speaker may then turn to Ulf Kristersson, the leader of the opposition, instead.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Sweden Democrats could support Kristersson's government or simply abstain from voting, thereby offering it passive support.	distant_expectations_consequences
The potential post-election scenarios and what role the Sweden Democrats will play have also dominated debates and party-leader interviews during the campaign.	distant_evaluation
"Akesson and his party again dominated the news over the weekend after the national broadcaster SVT, in an unprecedented move, made a statement against what they called a ""great generalization"" on Akesson's behalf."	cause_general
"That was after he sparred with other party leaders in a televised debate on Friday evening over unemployment rates among immigrants, suggesting it is hard for newcomers to get jobs because they ""do not fit in"" and ""are not Swedish""."	cause_general
Akesson added that immigrants must get opportunities to become Swedish and to integrate into the labor market and wider society.	distant_evaluation
After SVT refused to retract their statement, the Sweden Democrats decided to boycott the state broadcaster for the remainder of the campaign, canceling TV appearances on Election Day.	cause_general
Prime Minister of Sweden Stefan Lofven (front R) and his wife Ulla Lofven walk out a polling station after casting their votes in Stockholm, Sweden, Sept. 9, 2018.	error
The Sweden Democrat Party first entered parliament in 2010 and was founded 30 years ago by individuals with links to neo-Nazi movements.	distant_historical
"The party now operates a ""zero-tolerance policy"" on racism but has also ousted several representatives recently who were found to have made racist remarks online."	cause_general
The party gained growing support following the 2015 refugee crisis, when over 160,000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, a country with a population of 10 million.	cause_general
Since then, the government has tightened immigration controls and laws, but the latest prognosis from the Swedish Migration Agency shows that 122,000 people are expected to apply for asylum in Sweden between 2018 and 2021.	distant_expectations_consequences
A further 181,000 look set to arrive under family reunification rules, though that figure includes relatives of people born in Sweden.	distant_expectations_consequences
The total number of people who are expected to be granted asylum or to receive residence permits under family reunification rules between 2018 and 2021 is 150,000.	distant_expectations_consequences
While the Social Democrats on Sunday may get the lowest share of the vote in more than a century and the main opposition, the conservative Moderates, look set to lose their position as Sweden's second biggest party, smaller parties are doing comparatively well.	distant_expectations_consequences
Polls suggest that support for the ex-Communist Left Party could double compared to the 2014 election, and the Center Party -- an agrarian party that has shifted its focus towards free-market economics and in this election has staked its claims as the most liberal on immigration out of all the four opposition Alliance parties -- is now the fifth most popular party.	cause_general
That is according to the Sept. 6 Novus poll.	cause_general
Exit polls are expected shortly after 8 p.m. on Sunday, when polling closes across the country.	distant_expectations_consequences
Polling stations opened in Sweden on Sunday morning as the country headed for an election that looks set to turn the nationalist Sweden Democrat Party into political kingmakers.	error
(Xinhua/Shi Tiansheng)	error
STOCKHOLM, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) --- Polling stations opened in Sweden on Sunday morning as the country headed for an election that looks set to turn the nationalist Sweden Democrat Party into political kingmakers.	main
The final opinion polls published before Election Day predicted a neck-to-neck race between the center-left and center-right blocs, with the current government coalition partners -- the Social Democrats and the Greens -- along with the Left Party polling at 39.9 percent in a survey conducted by Novus on behalf of Swedish Television.	cause_general
The four-party center-right Alliance was just behind, at 38.5 percent.	cause_general
In the same Novus poll, the Sweden Democrats came out second in terms of single party's support, with 19.1 percent of respondents opting for the party, which is often labeled as populist and far right.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-01-27 22:24:19|Editor: Yurou	error
"""People's expectations on fairness, justice and security have become higher, but mafia-like gangs impact on people's sense of benefit and happiness,"" said Xu Hanming, a professor with Zhongnan University of Economics and Law."	distant_evaluation
Compared with previous campaigns, which are focused on social security, the latest one is primarily aimed at consolidating the CPC ruling foundation, strengthening political power at the grassroots level and safeguarding lasting peace and stability for the country.	distant_evaluation
"""The campaign effectively responds to the aspirations of the people to live a better life and is a necessary measure to combat corruption and foster a healthy atmosphere of integrity in society,"" said Meng Jingtao, an executive director of Youdu law firm in southwestern China's Sichuan Province."	distant_expectations_consequences
"As organized crime is deeply interwoven with corruption, the latest campaign will also deal with the protective ""umbrellas"" of gang crime."	distant_evaluation
"""Issues concerning people's interests have always been the focus of the CPC Central Committee and that embodies Xi's people-centered governance thought,"" said Yan Xuegang, a judge from Sichuan Higher People's Court."	main
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Jan. 27 (Xinhua) -- China's latest campaign against organized crime and officials who hide criminal organizations reflects President Xi Jinping's outlook on security and his people-centered governance thought, according to academics.	main
"According to a document released by the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and the State Council Wednesday, the fight will focus on industries and areas prone to organized crimes that prompt the ""strongest public reaction"" and that which is ""detested"" by the people."	cause_general
"The document said China would maintain a tough stance against ""all types of organized crime."""	cause_general
The CPC Central Committee with Xi Jinping at its core has attached great importance to national security and people's security since the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012.	distant_evaluation
"In the report delivered to the 19th CPC National Congress in 2017, Xi, also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, listed ""pursuing a holistic approach to national security"" as one of the 14 points underpinning China's endeavor to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era."	cause_general
"""We must put national interests first, take protecting our people's security as our mission and safeguarding political security as a fundamental task,"" Xi said."	distant_evaluation
While addressing a seminar on national security in February last year, Xi said national security work was essential to protecting people's interests.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-02-08 21:54:23|Editor: Chengcheng	error
Also on Wednesday, three law-enforcement departments jointly began a campaign to crack down on gambling in rural areas, especially on mafia-style gangs involved in gambling-related activities.	cause_general
"Procurator-General Cao Jianming ordered prosecutors across the country to strengthen the fight against gang crime into a ""crushing tide."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"The SPP later issued a notice asking procuratorates at all levels to step up punishment for gang crime and its protective ""umbrellas."""	distant_expectations_consequences
These gestures came after the central authorities announced a new campaign against gangs and organized crime, and their protectors, in late January.	cause_general
In a recent action on gang crime in east China's Zhejiang Province, more than 5,000 police officers were mobilized to arrest over 1,200 suspects, seizing about 250 guns and knives.	cause_general
IMPROVE PUBLIC POLITICAL AND LEGAL SERVICES	distant_evaluation
Providing better public services and protecting public interests are other key topics concerning the country's political and legal officials.	distant_evaluation
The procurator-general said that in 2018 prosecutors nationwide will improve their work on public interests litigation, especially on environmental protection, and food and drug safety.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to the amendments to the Civil Procedure Law and the Administrative Procedure Law, prosecutors are now empowered to file litigation as plaintiffs against any act that compromises public rights and interests.	cause_general
The Ministry of Justice promised to expand legal aid services to rural areas and staff every village with at least one legal assistant by the end of 2018.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
At the conference of the State Bureau for Letters and Calls, the office pledged to further improve the country's online petitioning system in 2018 to ensure better services and more transparency for government organs.	distant_expectations_consequences
BEIJING, Feb. 8 (Xinhua) -- China's political and legal authorities promised to step up efforts to fight gangs and organized crime in 2018, vowing to shore up people's sense of security and safeguard social justice.	main
China's major political and legal agencies, including the Supreme People's Court, the Supreme People's Procuratorate (SPP), Ministry of Public Security, and Ministry of Justice, have been respectively carrying out their national workshops and have announced annual work plans recently.	cause_specific
Political and legal workers are urged to carry out their duties to further promote fairness, transparency and efficiency.	distant_evaluation
UPROOT GANGS AND ORGANIZED CRIMES	main
Police will fight more resolutely against gangs and organized crime, and eradicate the political, economic and social conditions that foster such crime in 2018, minister of public security Zhao Kezhi said at the ministry's workshop.	main
The ministry on Wednesday announced the launch of a two-year national campaign against crime involving guns and explosives, the latest move echoing the calling.	cause_general
The crackdown will target the manufacturing and sales of guns and explosives within China and the smuggling of related goods from overseas.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-13 21:13:50|Editor: xuxin	error
Most controversially, Seehofer wanted to refuse asylum access to German territory if migrants had formally entered the Schengen zone via another country.	cause_general
The ultimatum imposed by Seehofer on the chancellor marked a historically unprecedented show of cabinet disobedience in Germany, which threatened to unravel the entire ruling grand coalition.	distant_evaluation
"At least initially, Merkel was critical of the ""migration master plan."""	distant_evaluation
She warned of a potential domino effect in the European free travel area caused by its unilateral border control provisions, as neighboring states rush to shutter their internal Schengen borders in response.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yet instead of sacking the rebellious minister, the chancellor hurried to a meeting in Brussels, where she managed to secure a vague agreement from Germany's European partners to toughen and expand their joint asylum policies.	cause_general
"Upon return to Berlin, she then struck a deal with Seehofer to resolve the CDU-CSU spat by establishing ""transit centers"" on German-Austrian borders, where asylum seekers who are already registered in the European Union (EU) will be detained before being transferred on to the responsible member state."	cause_general
"The outcome raised eyebrows in European capitals, with many observers arguing that the negotiated agreement was much closer to Seehofer's ""master plan"" for a strict and national asylum regime than Merkel's vision of European solidarity around the issue."	distant_evaluation
HARDENING STANCE ON MIGRATION	distant_evaluation
The hardening of Berlin's stance on migration was also seen to have occurred with peculiar timing, in light of official data that pointed to a steady decline of new asylum applications and related pressures in Germany since 2015.	distant_evaluation
"The latest step taken by the interior ministry towards the implementation of the ""migration master plan"" is a case in point."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
The interior minister recently announced that the Spanish government had offered to take back asylum seekers from Germany who were already registered in Spain.	cause_general
Responding to a query by Handelsblatt newspaper, Seehofer's ministry admitted, however, that not a single individual would have been affected by the bilateral agreement during the past two months.	cause_general
"Madrid's offer to help prevent so-called ""secondary migration"" of asylum seekers within the Schengen free-travel area specifically applies to individuals who are intercepted at the German-Austrian border."	cause_general
Although eight asylum seekers who were pre-registered in Spain were registered in Germany during the past two months, none of them had entered the country from Austria.	cause_general
Given the geographic location of Spain in the far West of Europe, it is highly unlikely that refugees and other irregular migrants will take a detour to Germany via its South-Eastern neighbor Austria.	distant_evaluation
The data was thus seen by critics of the deal, and Seehofer's politics more generally, as evidence that the CSU leader is unnecessarily stoking popular fears with anti-immigrant symbolism.	distant_evaluation
According to the German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF), the number of first-time asylum applications in Germany has plummeted from 722,370 applications in 2016 to 198,327 applications in 2017.	cause_general
The German Federal Criminal Police Office's (BKA) further reported that overall criminal offences declined by 9.6 percent from 2016 to 2017, contrary to suggestions by some that the mass arrival of refugees in the country would unleash a national crime wave.	cause_general
"Speaking to Xinhua, Kai Unzicker, a senior project manager at the Bertelsmann Foundation, argued that as once predicted by Merkel, Germany had in fact coped well under the pressure of the ""refugee crisis."""	distant_evaluation
"""Cities and communities have achieved enormous successes in collaboration with an active and open civil society."""	distant_evaluation
by Anna Strumpel and Philipp Requat	error
"Unzicker readily admitted that ""housing and catering for such a large amount of people on such notice was logistically and financially challenging."""	distant_evaluation
"Nevertheless, the situation ""relaxed again"" quickly as of 2016, when the number of new arrivals began to drop."	distant_evaluation
As a consequence, Unzicker argued that the federal government's harsher rhetoric on asylum owed more to psychological and political factors than any significant deterioration in citizens' quality of life.	distant_evaluation
"""Racist and xenophobic appearances and stances have poisoned the public debate in Germany."	distant_evaluation
"Even though crime and unemployment rates are at all-time lows, fear and insecurity are being promoted,"" he warned."	distant_evaluation
CHANGING PUBLIC ATTITUDES AHEAD OF ELECTIONS	distant_evaluation
A visible sign of changing popular attitudes was found in a poll in July, in which the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) party overtook the German Social Democrats (SPD) as the country's second largest party.	cause_general
"In turn, the SPD publicly attacked the CSU for damaging the reputation of the government by attempting to ""drag it to the right-wing spectrum of politics."""	distant_evaluation
That the CSU is attempting to change its tune may reflect the party's growing desperation ahead of looming regional elections in its Bavarian homestead.	distant_evaluation
Polls suggest that the CSU is set to lose its long-standing legislative majority in the state, as the AfD attracts growing numbers of voters who feel disenfranchised by what they view as an aloof political elite.	distant_evaluation
"BERLIN, Aug. 13 (Xinhua) -- When more than a million asylum seekers arrived in Germany in 2015, the country's initial reaction was summed up by its veteran chancellor Angela Merkel in three words: ""We can do it!"""	distant_historical
In spite of the AfD's evident momentum, Robert Vehrkamp, senior advisor at the Bertelsmann Foundation, argued that the CDU and CSU would both benefit politically from a consensus on abstaining from copying the language and rhetoric of right-wing populists.	distant_expectations_consequences
Vehrkamp also cautioned that centrist parties risked legitimizing populist adversaries if they simply copied their strategies.	distant_expectations_consequences
So far, the CSU's efforts to ward off a challenge from the AfD do appear to have born little fruit.	distant_evaluation
In an opinion survey published by Deutsche Welle shortly after the CDU and CSU reached their compromise on asylum, Seehofer's approval rating plummeted by 16 percent to 27 percent.	cause_general
By contrast, Merkel only witnessed a slight monthly drop in her reading to 48 percent (minus two percentage points).	cause_general
When it comes to the chancellor, it seems the German electorate is still forgiving of the ideological pragmatism which she has repeatedly demonstrated during over 12-year rule.	distant_evaluation
And Merkel reiterated whenever questioned about the challenges that the influx of refugees would create.	distant_historical
"Three years later, Merkel's fourth governing cabinet has moved away from what became known as the ""open door policy"" in September 2015."	cause_general
The federal government has now swerved decisively to the right on migration, a move that was underscored by a recent compromise reached to resolve bitter infighting over asylum policy between the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Christian Social Union (CSU) conservative sister party and coalition partner.	main
CDU-CSU SPAT OVER ASYLUM POLICY	cause_general
"Following the publication of his ambitiously-named ""migration master plan"" in June, interior minister and CSU leader Horst Seehofer threatened to resign unless Merkel endorsed the complete document or found a comparable solution on a European level within the course of two weeks."	cause_general
People mourn the victim of the Aug. 25 attack in Chemnitz, eastern Germany, on Sept. 1, 2018.	error
The clashes have deeply shaken German politics, reviving strains in German Chancellor's Angela Merkel's government and sparking an intense debate about Merkel's open border 2015 policy to let in more than a million refugees.	cause_general
"""In German politics a lot depends on how Merkel's Christian Democrats and their allies, the Christian Social Union (CSU), succeed in becoming a stable alliance again, managing to win back voters they lost in last September's elections to far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD),"" said Mark Elchardus, Emeritus professor of sociology at the Vrij University of Brussels (VUB)."	distant_evaluation
Angela Merkel's government faced its deepest crisis since she became chancellor, when a dispute on migration policy between her party, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its ally, the Christian Social Union (CSU) broke out in June.	distant_evaluation
Anti-immigration sentiment, which according to Elchardus is on the rise across the EU despite a sharp drop in the actual number of migrants arriving to the European Union to pre-2015 level, holds a key role in the emerging line of conflict between nationalists and cosmopolitans in Europe.	main
"""Today the migration crisis is more about how people react to new arrivals and not about how to actually manage the number of those reaching the EU,"" said Elchardus."	main
The rate at which migrants are arriving has dropped sharply in Europe since the huge inflows in 2015.	cause_general
According to latest data available by Frontex, the EU's border and coast guard agency, in the first eight months of 2018 the number of irregular border crossings into the EU fell 40 per cent from a year ago to about 86 500.	cause_general
In 2015 more than one million refugees and migrants crossed into Europe.	distant_historical
ORBAN VS MACRON	main
"""On the European scene the emerging extremes of the nationalist position versus the cosmopolitan one are best embodied by Hungary's prime minister Viktor Orban on one side and by French president Emmanuel Macron on the other,"" said Crum."	main
(Xinhua/Kevin Voigt)	error
"""Europe looks very much a struggle between what Macron stands for and what Orban stands for,"" agreed Elchardus, noting that it is unclear how this battle for influence will evolve, especially in regards to party alliance making in the run-up to European Parliament (EP) elections in May 2019."	main
"""The opposition between them is very clear, Macron stands for liberal democracy, he is pro-European, whereas Orban advocates illiberal democracy, he is Eurosceptic and against immigration, but it is completely unclear how this is going to translate in alliances within the European parliament,"" the sociologist said."	main
"Macron framed next year's European elections as a strong opposition ""between nationalists and progressives"" late in August, following statements by Italy's far-right Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini and Orban, who labelled the French president their number one enemy."	cause_specific
Critical to further developments is whether Orban's Fidesz party remains within the conservative European People's Party (EPP), currently the largest grouping in the European Parliament.	distant_evaluation
"""It is doubtful whether Orban's party will remain in the EPP,"" said Crum, noting that ""it will be more natural to either be boosted out or to be moved to a more right-wing nationalist group within the EP."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Orban said in June he would prefer Fidesz to stay within the EPP and try to reform the group from the inside, but EPP members, including Merkel's Christian Democrats, have criticized some of Orban's policies.	distant_evaluation
Macron's strategy for the European elections is decisive on how the balance of political powers along the conflict of nationalists versus cosmopolitans will evolve within the EU.	distant_evaluation
"""Macron has not affiliated himself to any of the European political families and hasn't attempted to create his own group either,"" said Crum."	cause_general
Moreover, big questions loom over Europe's Social Democrats.	distant_evaluation
"""The decline of social democracy and the inability of those parties to regain their initiative, is an important factor because they have the potential of stopping the rise of far-right, anti-immigration forces,"" said Elchardus."	main
by Maria Vasileiou	error
While Europe has seen a rise in support for far-right, anti-immigrant parties in recent national and regional elections, social democrats have experienced a sharp drop in popularity in several countries across the Continent, underlined by recent developments in Sweden.	cause_specific
In last week's national elections in the Nordic country the Social Democrats' vote share fell to its lowest level since 1911, while the anti-immigration nationalists Sweden Democrats made gains.	cause_specific
"Elchardus anticipated further rise in support for anti-immigration, nationalist forces but he saw no majorities in Western European countries, where mainstream democratic parties ""manage to contain the rise of far-right by getting tougher on migration and European integration positions""."	distant_expectations_consequences
THE HAGUE, Sept. 16 (Xinhua) -- A fierce political row over migration policy triggered in Germany following violent anti-immigrant clashes in the city of Chemnitz, underlines a new line of conflict emerging within the European Union (EU) between nationalists and cosmopolitans, experts say.	main
"""We have always defined much of European politics along the differences between Left and Right, but there is now a new line of conflict coming to the forefront, between nationalists and cosmopolitans, between those who are against migration and prefer closed borders and those, who are in favor of internationalism and openness,"" said Ben Crum, professor in political science at the Vrije University (VU) in Amsterdam."	main
MIGRATION POLICY ROW REIGNITED	cause_general
According to Crum, the political debate currently evolving in Germany, where the violent clashes in the city of Chemnitz reignited a row over migration policy, could be seen along this new line of conflict.	main
"""The political debate in Germany is actually a fight over Angela Merkel's legacy, and it remains to be seen how German politics will evolve after the Chancellor concludes her term in office in some four years,"" the political expert told Xinhua, noting that ""what happens in Germany is essential to the EU."""	main
Violent right-wing protests broke out in Chemnitz late in August, in the eastern German state of Saxony, following the killing of a German man for which two immigrants from Syria and Iraq were arrested.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-05 19:31:43|Editor: xuxin	error
"""A game of a few seconds can become a five-year result."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"For Soeder, the deterioration of his party's regional ratings reflected growing voter dissatisfaction with the ""grand coalition"" formed by the CDU, CSU and SPD on a federal level."	main
"""Internal fights are always damaging, no matter who starts them,"" the governor said."	distant_evaluation
Soeder's party chief Horst Seehofer acts as the interior minister in the federal government and is himself seen as the foremost cause of cabinet dissent by most voters according to recent polls.	cause_general
"Commenting on the latest confrontation between Seehofer, Merkel and the SPD over his defense of the controversial ex-intelligence chief Hans-Georg Maassen, Soeder said that there was still room for improvement in the work of the ""grand coalition""."	distant_evaluation
"At the same time, Soeder vowed that there would be ""zero cooperation"" between the CSU and Alternative for Germany (AfD) to preserve its rule in Bavaria."	distant_expectations_consequences
The wealthy south eastern region is the only of Germany's 16 federal states where the CSU participates in electoral competitions.	cause_general
In spite of the CSU downward trend in polls, Soeder insisted that the party had done well by Bavarians while in power.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
"BERLIN, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Markus Soeder (CSU), the governor of Bavaria, has blamed infighting in the ruling ""grand coalition"" for the current weakness of his Christian Social Union (CSU) party in opinion polls during a televised appearance on Friday."	main
"""These are all numbers which are incredibly influenced by politics in Berlin,"" Soeder said with view to the latest Infratest dimap survey in which the CSU's voter support has slumped to 33 percent in its Bavarian homestead."	distant_evaluation
He warned voters not to treat regional elections in his state as an opportunity to punish the federal government.	distant_evaluation
The CSU, the conservative sister party of chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU), has traditionally dominated politics in Bavaria by defending an absolute legislative majority there throughout most of the post-war period.	cause_general
When polled in an Infratest dimap survey published on Thursday night, however, only 23 percent of voters said they wanted the CSU to continue ruling alone following an upcoming vote on Oct. 14.	cause_general
According to the survey, it would theoretically even be possible for the Free Democratic Party (FDP), Greens (Gruene), German Social Democrats (SPD) and Left Party (Linke) to form a government together without any participation of the incumbent.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Responding to the poll, Soeder urged Bavarian voters to ""reconsider for two seconds"" before casting their ballot in less than two weeks."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-12 17:07:47|Editor: xuxin	error
"In justifying his request for a third extension of martial law in Mindanao, Duterte added that despite the significant progress, ""rebellion still persists in Mindanao and that the public safety requires the continuation of martial law in the whole of Mindanao."""	cause_specific
Specifically, he cited the several bombings that rocked many parts of Mindanao in the past few months that killed a number of people.	cause_specific
Mindanao has been the hotbed of violent extremism and a brewing rebellion for decades.	cause_general
In more recent years, Mindanao witnessed the perpetration of numerous acts of violence like the Marawi siege and bombings in major cities.	cause_specific
Members of Duterte's security team, led by Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana, briefed the lawmakers before the voting on the need to place Mindanao under martial rule, citing lingering threats from rebel and extremist groups.	cause_specific
"The team called upon Congress to allow the further extension of martial law ""to assist the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Philippine National Police (PNP) and all other enforcement agencies to put a decisive end to this ongoing rebellion and, thereby, remove a long-standing obstacle to the full rehabilitation and development of Mindanao."""	cause_specific
"Lorenzana, as martial law administrator, said the AFP ""will continue to uphold its mandate of defending the sovereignty of our state, upholding the integrity of our territory and protecting the democratic way of life of our people, with full respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and the primacy of the rule of law."""	distant_evaluation
Duterte initially imposed a 60-day martial law in Mindanao on May 23, 2017, after militants laid siege to Marawi, a predominantly Muslim city in Mindanao.	distant_historical
At the height of the intense fighting to retake Marawi from the pro-IS terrorist in July 2017, Duterte asked Congress to extend the martial law until December 2017, a request that lawmakers easily approved.	distant_historical
When the extension expired in December 2017, Duterte again asked Congress to extend it until Dec. 31, 2018.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
The 1987 Philippine Constitution only allows the president to declare martial law for a maximum of 60 days.	cause_general
Any extension would require approval from Congress.	cause_general
"MANILA, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- The Philippine Congress granted President Rodrigo Duterte's request to further extend martial law and the suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus in Mindanao for a period of one year to Dec. 31, 2019, to quell a ""continuing rebellion"" in the southern Philippine region."	main
After deliberating for almost four hours in a special joint session on Wednesday, lawmakers from both the Senate and the House of Representatives voted 235-28-1 in favor of another one-year extension of martial rule in Mindanao.	cause_specific
This is the third extension granted to Duterte since he imposed martial law in May 2017 after rebellion militants laid siege to Marawi City.	cause_general
Under the martial law and the suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus in Mindanao, security forces are allowed to make arrests, detain or search without a warrant.	cause_general
This means that people who have committed the crime of rebellion or even suspected ones may be arrested without a warrant of arrest, and objects that are used in the commission of the crime of rebellion may be seized without a search warrant.	cause_general
"With the extension of martial law, Philippine Presidential Spokesperson Salvador Panelo said the Duterte government ""expects to achieve substantial progress in addressing the persisting rebellion in Mindanao, as well as promoting the overall security and peace and order situation in the island."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"In a letter to Congress last week, Duterte asked lawmakers to allow the martial law to continue in Mindanao to quell terrorist groups that ""continue to defy the government by perpetrating hostile activities."""	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-11 20:47:50|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
SARAJEVO, Dec.11 (Xinhua) -- Members of Bosnia and Herzegovina(BiH)'s State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA) arrested colonel of BiH's Armed Forces on Tuesday here.	main
Acting on the order of BiH's Prosecutors Office Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption, colonel Ramiz Micivoda, 49, was arrested, BiH Prosecutors Office said in a statement Tuesday.	main
"""Micivoda is charged of abusing his official position and authorization in time of being an active member of BiH Armed Forces (BiHAF)."	cause_specific
"He was illegally requiring and receiving money, enabling persons to conduct their agricultural activities on land in the jurisdiction of Armed Forces,"" said the statement."	cause_specific
By the investigation, it was found out that the suspect, on two occasions, arriving with his vehicle, outside the BiHAF official facilities and premises, requested and received money from these persons, taking advantage of his position and helped them in using the military land.	cause_specific
"""Investigative organs in BiHAF undertook legal actions prescribed by country's law and informed the relevant Prosecutor's Office of BiH on the abuse of power by Micivoda,"" BiHAF press statement said, adding that they will jointly continue taking all necessary actions against all forms of corruption."	cause_general
Micivoda is currently in SIPA's premises and will be handed over to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which will then make a decision on further activities in the case.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-19 19:57:20|Editor: yan	error
Xi arrived here on Sunday for a state visit to Brunei, the first by a Chinese head of state in 13 years to the Southeast Asian nation.	cause_specific
During the talks, Xi expressed high appreciation to the Sultan for the great importance he has long attached to developing the China-Brunei relations.	distant_evaluation
The Chinese president said he was deeply impressed by the warmth and hospitality of the Bruneian people on his first visit to the country, which Xi said vividly testifies to the profound friendship between the two peoples.	distant_evaluation
Xi praised the bilateral ties, saying that China and Brunei enjoy a long and deep historical and cultural link, and are close neighbors across the sea as well as friends and partners who trust each other.	distant_evaluation
PLANNING FOR FUTURE	distant_expectations_consequences
During the talks, Xi called on the two sides to increase high-level exchanges to well steer the vessel of bilateral relations.	distant_evaluation
China appreciates Brunei's firm adherence to the one-China policy and will continue to support Brunei in pursuing a development path that suits its own national conditions, Xi said.	distant_expectations_consequences
China sees Brunei as an important partner for cooperation in building the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road and is willing to align the Belt and Road Initiative with Brunei's Wawasan 2035, a strategy for economic diversification, in a bid to boost the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries, he said.	main
Brunei's businesses are welcome to expand exports to China, Xi said, adding that China stands ready to strengthen cooperation with Brunei in infrastructure construction, agriculture, fishery, energy and other areas, and share the experience in developing digital economy, e-commerce and other emerging sectors.	main
The Chinese president urged the two sides to enhance cooperation in education, culture, sports, health and tourism, promote understanding and friendship between the youths, expand exchanges at sub-national level, and boost cooperation in judiciary, counter-terrorism and crackdown on cross-border crime.	main
Video Player Close	error
Xi also proposed that the two countries deepen communication, coordination and collaboration within the frameworks such as the United Nations and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), and jointly promote greater development in China-ASEAN relations and East Asia cooperation.	main
China supports the Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) cooperation and ASEAN in achieving a comprehensive, balanced development, he said.	distant_evaluation
On the South China Sea, Xi pointed out that it is in the vital interests of both China and Brunei to safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea and also the shared aspiration of both peoples.	distant_evaluation
Xi said that China appreciates the dual-track approach proposed by Brunei: disputes should be handled through friendly consultation by parties concerned and countries in the region should jointly safeguard stability in the South China Sea.	distant_evaluation
Both sides should continue to advance maritime cooperation and the negotiations on the Code of Conduct (COC) in the South China Sea, thus building the sea into a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation, he added.	main
For his part, Hassanal extended warm welcome to Xi for his first state visit to Brunei, saying that the visit will deepen the traditional friendly relations between the two countries and strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation in all areas.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said that Brunei and China enjoy a long history of friendship and the bilateral relations have continuously developed on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit.	distant_evaluation
The Sultan said he is delighted that the bilateral ties were upgraded to a strategic cooperative partnership during Xi's visit.	distant_evaluation
Brunei firmly adheres to the one-China policy and will take this visit as an opportunity to promote bilateral cooperation in trade, investment, agriculture, tourism, education, people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and judicial assistance, thus benefiting the two peoples, he said.	main
Brunei admires China for its remarkable achievements in poverty reduction and sustainable development, and is willing to promote synergy and cooperation between the Wawasan 2035 and the Belt and Road Initiative, Hassanal said.	distant_evaluation
Chinese President Xi Jinping, accompanied by Brunei's Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, inspects the guard of honor in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei, Nov. 19, 2018.	error
He said that Brunei highly appreciates the important role of China in fostering global stability and prosperity, tackling climate change, safeguarding multilateral trading system, and promoting regional economic integration, and is grateful to China for supporting BIMP-EAGA cooperation.	distant_evaluation
Brunei stands ready to increase communication and coordination with China in international and regional affairs, and push forward ASEAN-China cooperation to a deeper level, he said.	main
Brunei is delighted that countries in the region jointly safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea and advance maritime cooperation through dialogue and consultation, he added.	distant_evaluation
After the talks, the two heads of state witnessed the signing of a cooperation plan on jointly promoting the Belt and Road Initiative and other bilateral cooperation documents.	main
A joint statement was also issued.	cause_general
A grand welcome ceremony was held at Istana Nurul Iman, Brunei's royal palace, where Xi talked to members of Brunei's royal family.	cause_general
He told them that the Chinese side appreciates the long-term friendly policy upheld by the royal family toward China and the traditional friendship will be carried forward.	distant_evaluation
Xi also welcomed them to visit China more often.	distant_evaluation
Brunei is the second stop of Xi's ongoing Asia-Pacific tour, which has already taken him to Papua New Guinea.	cause_general
He will also visit the Philippines.	cause_general
Xi attended a grand welcome ceremony held by Hassanal at Istana Nurul Iman, Brunei's royal palace, before their talks on Monday.	error
In Papua New Guinea, Xi paid a state visit and attended the 26th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting.	cause_general
He also met with leaders of eight Pacific island countries that have diplomatic ties with China.	cause_general
Related:	error
Full text of China-Brunei joint statement	error
(Xinhua/Ju Peng)	error
BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Nov. 19 (Xinhua) -- China and Brunei on Monday agreed to upgrade their relations to a strategic cooperative partnership.	main
The two countries also pledged to be good partners featuring mutual trust in politics, mutual benefit in economy, mutual understanding in people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and mutual assistance in multilateral affairs.	main
The consensus was reached during talks between visiting Chinese President Xi Jinping and Brunei's Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah.	cause_general
"""The decision made by our two sides to establish a strategic cooperative partnership is to ... deliver greater benefits to our two peoples through our cooperation,"" Xi said."	distant_evaluation
File Photo: U.S. President Donald Trump introduces his daughter Ivanka Trump to speak during a visit to H&K Equipment Company in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania, Jan. 18, 2018.	distant_evaluation
The Presidential Records Act requires all official White House communications and records be preserved.	cause_general
During her tenure as the top U.S. diplomat under former President Barack Obama, Clinton used her family's private email server for official communications.	distant_historical
The FBI found over 100 emails containing classified information on that server.	distant_historical
Clinton deleted thousands of emails that she and her lawyers decided were personal or unrelated to her government post.	distant_historical
She said she had been unaware of rules against using private email to conduct the public's business.	distant_historical
"The controversy was a major point of discussion during 2016 U.S. presidential election, when then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump used the nickname ""Crooked Hillary"" to criticize Clinton, his Democratic rival, for her use of the private email server."	distant_historical
"Trump supporters used the chant ""lock her up"" to imply that Clinton had committed a crime."	distant_historical
"When asked by ABC News if the idea of ""lock her up!"""	distant_evaluation
"apply to herself, Ivanka Trump said ""no."""	distant_evaluation
"""My emails have not been deleted, nor was there anything of substance, nothing confidential that was within them."	distant_evaluation
(Xinhua/REUTERS)	error
"So, there's no connection between the two things,"" she added."	distant_evaluation
U.S. lawmakers have planned to scrutinize Ivanka Trump's personal email use.	distant_expectations_consequences
House Democrats have called on the White House to share more information about Ivanka Trump's email account and the nature of her messages.	cause_general
WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- Ivanka Trump, the eldest daughter of U.S. President Donald Trump, has defended her use of a private email account while transitioning to a senior adviser in her father's administration.	distant_evaluation
"In an interview with ABC News broadcast Wednesday, Ivanka Trump said ""all of my emails are stored and preserved."	distant_evaluation
"There were no deletions,"" insisting that ""there's no connection between"" her situation and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's email scandal."	distant_evaluation
The Washington Post reported this month that the president's daughter had used a private email account to conduct official government business, raising questions about the conformity with public records rules.	main
"""There is no restriction of using personal email,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""In fact, we're instructed that if we receive an email to our personal account that could relate to government work, you simply just forward it to your government account so it can be archived."""	distant_evaluation
"The U.S. president has defended his daughter's private email use, telling reporters at the White House last week that he looked at the matter and maintained that ""they're all in presidential records."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-14 12:09:01|Editor: Yurou	error
"""So let us go forward today ... and tell the world that the United States of America will not continue to be part of the worst humanitarian disaster on the face of the earth."""	distant_expectations_consequences
The resolution condemning Saudi Arabia's role in Khashoggi's death was introduced by senators like Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker and majority leader Mitch McConnell, both of whom are Republicans.	cause_specific
The two resolutions, unlikely to either get passed by the House or approved by U.S. President Donald Trump, were seen as largely symbolic, U.S. media reported.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pompeo and Mattis had briefed the full House on the U.S.-Saudi relations, especially the Yemen conflict and the case of Khashoggi in a classified condition.	cause_general
Khashoggi has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities said he died in a ""brawl"" in the consulate, and denied that the Saudi crown prince had ordered the killing."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 Saudis were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
The U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation into his death, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia, such as sanctions and suspension of military support for the Saudi-led attack in Yemen, if those responsible were not held accountable.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the Trump administration has been reluctant to further punish the Saudi government.	distant_evaluation
"Pompeo said in a recent article that the death of Khashoggi has ""heightened the Capitol Hill caterwauling and media pile-on."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 (Xinhua) -- In unusual pushbacks against the Trump administration, the GOP-controlled U.S. Senate on Thursday voted to recommend ending U.S. military assistance to the Saudi-led operation in Yemen, and accused Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of involvement in the death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
Immediately after the 56-41 vote on a resolution concerning the Yemen conflict, the Senate unanimously passed a separate one that blames the Saudi crown prince for Khashoggi's murder and urges Saudi Arabia to hold accountable anyone responsible for his death.	main
In the first resolution, lawmakers recommended that the U.S. government should stop its backing of the Saudi-led operation in Yemen, despite the briefings of senior officials like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Defense James Mattis last month.	cause_general
"In the second resolution, the Senate believed that the Saudi crown prince is ""responsible for the murder"" of Khashoggi, and urging the Saudi Arabian government to ""ensure appropriate accountability."""	cause_general
The bipartisan votes came amid the Capitol Hill's growing outrage over high civilian casualties in Yemen, plus U.S. intelligence officials' reported conclusion that the Saudi leader must have at least known the murder of Khashoggi.	cause_general
"Independent Senator Bernie Sanders, who co-sponsored the Yemen resolution with Republican Senator Mike Lee, said the vote has shown the Senate's view ""that the constitutional responsibility for making war rests with the United States Congress."""	distant_evaluation
"""Today we tell the despotic government of Saudi Arabia that we will not be part of their military adventures,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-14 14:09:20|Editor: mmm	error
"Okinawa Governor Denny Tamaki, who held last-ditch talks with Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga and Defense Minister Takeshi Iwaya a day earlier in a bid to halt the landfill work, told reporters Friday that ""I cannot help feeling strong resentment toward the work being carried out in defiance of the prefectural residents' will."""	distant_evaluation
"Tamaki, a staunch opponent of the central government's plans to relocate the base under a pact made with Washington in 1996, said the central government maintaining such a forceful position on the issue would lead the Okinawan people to ""voice their anger even stronger."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Anti-U.S. sentiments were stoked on the tiny island by the rape in 1995 of an elementary school girl by three U.S. servicemen.	distant_historical
Tamaki was elected as governor in September's gubernatorial election on a platform of opposing the base's relocation and lessening Okinawa's base-hosting burdens and has since been pushing to resolve the issue through dialogue with the central government.	cause_general
The central government, however, despite Tamaki's push for face-to-face talks, has forged ahead unilaterally with land reclamation work necessary to build the new base after the land ministry issued an injunction to suspend Okinawa revoking a permit for the landfill work.	cause_specific
The Okinawa prefectural government's appeal for the suspension of work for the relocation of the controversial base was also dismissed by a lower court with the ruling upheld by the Naha branch of the Fukuoka High Court on Dec. 5.	cause_specific
Okinawa hosts the bulk of U.S. military facilities in Japan, yet the tiny sub-tropical island accounts for just a small fraction of Japan's total landmass.	cause_general
As well as shouldering the majority of U.S. bases and being victims of U.S. base-linked workers' criminal activities, which span rape and murder, to driving under the influence of alcohol, as well as a flow of accidents and mishaps involving U.S. military aircraft, the new location for the base has an extremely delicate ecosystem unique to Okinawa that the locals desperately want to protect.	distant_evaluation
Tamaki had previously said that the central government's persistent push to continue with the landfill work is completely unacceptable and against the will of Okinawans who wish to see the base moved outside of Okinawa and Japan altogether.	distant_evaluation
The prefectural government is urging the people of Okinawa to make their voices heard nationally and internationally by calling a referendum on the issue next year.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Dec. 14 (Xinhua) -- Japan's central government on Friday began offshore landfill work for the relocation of a controversial U.S. military base in Okinawa amid staunch protests from locals.	main
In the coastal Henoko region in Nago on the island, the planned location of the replacement facility for the U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, sand and soil started being dumped just before noon local time in an area spanning more than six hectares on the southern side of the landfill site.	main
Protestors gathered from early morning to voice their opposition to the landfill work and the building of a new base, which will eventually see 157 hectares of land reclaimed from pristine waters, and the building of a V-shaped runway.	cause_general
A man in his 60s was quoted as saying the central government had lost the trust of the people of Okinawa over the base relocation issue.	distant_anecdotal
A women in her 70s held a placard stating that the will of the (Okinawa) people should not be ignored.	distant_anecdotal
"A placard held by another lady also in her 70s read: ""No more U.S. bases."	distant_anecdotal
"Americans go home!"""	distant_anecdotal
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-03 03:15:41|Editor: yan	error
They are now preparing to pass a legislation to completely end the U.S. military assistance to Saudi Arabia.	distant_expectations_consequences
Also, many European countries, including France, have backed the calls for ending the conflict in Yemen.	cause_general
Some European governments announced a pause of their weapon sales to Saudi Arabia.	cause_general
Britain sent its Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt to Riyadh to press for an end to the Yemen's war.	cause_general
Now, after such unprecedented push, the United Nations is well confident that all rival parties to the conflict will engage in those upcoming peace process.	distant_expectations_consequences
These accelerating moves are raising a question, why now?	distant_evaluation
"""The U.S. diplomatic movements have begun in early October, after the Western media began to learn about details of the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi,"" said Abdelelah Haidar, a Yemeni political analyst and an expert on the U.S. political issues based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia."	distant_evaluation
Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident, who was a journalist for The Washington Post, was reportedly assassinated inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
The Saudi government has since been facing increasing pressure to disclose the perpetrators behind the murder of Khashoggi, as well as to end its war in Yemen.	cause_specific
"""It appeared to be a U.S. military decision by the Pentagon chief Mattis as he was the first U.S. official to demand an immediate end to the Saudi-led coalition war in Yemen,"" Haidar told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
Before Mattis' move, many voices in the Congress, which are very critical to the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump, have increasingly demanded the punishment against the murders of Khashoggi and called for an end to the Yemen's war.	cause_general
"""The victory of democrats in the midterm elections in the Congress in late October has sped up the pressure on Trump's administration,"" Haidar said."	distant_evaluation
"""The democratic's senators were backed by a large-scale support from the leading U.S. media outlets, which focused on the Saudi-led coalition war in Yemen and linked it with the murder of Khashoggi,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
"""I think, the Congress' pressure is targeting Trump himself ... it targeted the personal business relationship between Trump, his son-in-law Jared Kushner and the Saudi royal family,"" Haidar said."	distant_evaluation
"Analyst Adel al-Assar of Sanaa-based daily Althawra newspaper said that ""all comes together, the Congress' actions and U.S. media reports on Yemen's war, to put Trump administration to do something."""	distant_evaluation
"""The democrats in the Congress are preparing to move ahead toward a complete cut of the U.S. military assistance to Saudi Arabia,"" al-Assar said."	distant_evaluation
"""So, Trump and Kushner have their own personal motive to save Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, whom they have a very special friendship,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
"The Congress' movements and Trump's ""personal motivation"" are two important factors that could probably explain what was behind the U.S. quick action towards its close ally Saudi Arabia and the war of Yemen."	distant_evaluation
The same movements could also be seen recently in the discussions inside the British House of Commons and the House of Lords, which focused on Khashoggi's murder and the war in Yemen.	distant_evaluation
Professor Ali al-Ammary of the Faculty of Media in Sanaa University argued that the increasing pictures of Yemen's war, particularly the airstrikes, the Yemeni malnourished children and depressed Yemeni families on western media front pages, were the key factor behind the recent international pressure to end the war.	distant_evaluation
by Mohamed al-Azaki	error
"""The peoples in the U.S. and Europe have become aware that millions of Yemeni children are dying from malnutrition, starvation and epidemic diseases as a result from the Saudi-led coalition naval blockade for more than three years,"" said al-Ammary."	distant_evaluation
"It was an ""ignored war"" for many months because many western journalists had been denied access to Yemen, by now the international media organizations have become more active in reporting daily tragedies of millions of Yemenis."	distant_evaluation
"""It has become facts that are shown by international media outlets, newspapers and televisions on a daily basis, and that put pressure on the U.S. and Britain to take an action now to stop this conflict,"" al-Ammary said."	distant_evaluation
"""I think it's the right moment to push for the Yemen peace, which represents all the best opportunity to date,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
SANAA, Dec. 2 (Xinhua) -- The United States has been mounting pressure to bring an end to the war in Yemen that is pitting its close allies in the Saudi-led coalition against Iranian-allied Shiite Houthi rebels.	main
After more than three years of devastating war that killed thousands and brought the whole Yemeni nation to the brink of starvation, why is the United States stepping up its pressures now?	distant_evaluation
"The U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis has called for ""immediate end"" to the war in Yemen."	main
"""It looks like very, very early in December up in Sweden we'll see both the Houthi rebel side and the Saudi-backed government of Yemeni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi will be up there,"" Mattis told reporters at the Pentagon last week."	distant_expectations_consequences
Mattis' words were quickly backed by the U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.	cause_general
In the U.S. Congress, many senators have risen their voices to end the U.S. military support to Saudi Arabia, increasing pressure on Trump administration to end the war in Yemen.	cause_general
File Photo: U.S. President Donald Trump attends a press conference at the White House in Washington D.C., the United States, on Nov. 7, 2018.	error
"""We now know many details of this horrible crime,"" said Trump in the statement, adding that ""we may never know all of the facts surrounding the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi."""	distant_evaluation
Trump also revealed that he acknowledged the intention of many U.S. Congress members, who were seeking tough punishment on Saudi Arabia over the Khashoggi incident, but indicated little willingness to echo their call.	distant_evaluation
"""I will consider whatever ideas are presented to me, but only if they are consistent with the absolute security and safety of America,"" Trump noted."	distant_expectations_consequences
Khashoggi has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities had said Khashoggi died in a ""brawl"" in its consulate."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 people were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
U.S. Treasury imposed sanctions on 17 individuals over their alleged roles in the killing of Khashoggi last week, following U.S. State Department's decision in late October to revoke 21 Saudi suspects' visas.	cause_specific
U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation of the case, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia if those responsible were not held accountable, such as suspending U.S. military sales.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Xinhua/Hu Yousong)	error
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday affirmed Washington's commitment to its partnership with Riyadh citing national interests, remaining an ambiguous attitude toward the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
"""The United States intends to remain a steadfast partner of Saudi Arabia to ensure the interests of our country, Israel and all other partners in the region,"" Trump said in a statement released by the White House."	main
"Calling Saudi Arabia a ""great ally"" in U.S. fight against Iran, Trump emphasized Riyadh's estimated 450-billion-U.S.-dollar investment in the United States following his trip last year, including expected 110 billion dollars' spending on arms purchase from major U.S. companies."	cause_general
Meanwhile, the White House host avoided making judgment on the alleged Saudi royal family's involvement in the recent killing of Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post, which has stirred up the international community and invites criticism to the Middle East kingdom.	distant_evaluation
"""Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event -- maybe he did and maybe he didn't!"""	distant_evaluation
Trump noted.	distant_evaluation
U.S. media, citing insiders, reported last week that the CIA had concluded the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had ordered to kill Khashoggi, while the crown prince himself kept denying the accusations.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-05 21:25:34|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
The local and central governments have been at odds over the relocation of the base since 1999, with Denny Tamaki, who became Okinawa governor in October following the death of his predecessor Governor Takeshi Onaga, urging the central government to reduce Okinawa's disproportionate base-hosting burdens and shift the new base off the island.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Dec. 5 (Xinhua) -- The Naha branch of the Fukuoka High Court in Japan on Wednesday rejected demands from the Okinawa prefectural government to halt the relocation of a controversial U.S. base within Japan's southernmost prefecture despite calls from local officials and residents for the base to be moved off the island.	main
The Okinawa prefectural government's appeal for the suspension of work for the relocation of the U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma from the crowded residential area of Ginowan to the less populated Henoko coastal district in Nago, both in Okinawa, was dismissed by a lower court with the ruling upheld by the high court on Wednesday.	cause_specific
The central government now plans to restart landfill work in earnest on Dec. 14 for the construction of the new U.S. replacement military facility, despite the local government highlighting the fact that documents necessary for temporarily storing soil and sand near the construction site had not been submitted.	distant_expectations_consequences
Okinawa hosts the bulk of U.S. military facilities in Japan, yet the tiny sub-tropical island accounts for just a small fraction of Japan's total landmass.	cause_general
As well as shouldering the majority of U.S. bases and being victims of U.S. base-linked workers' criminal activities, which span rape and murder, to driving under the influence of alcohol, as well as a steady flow of accidents and mishaps involving U.S. military aircraft, the new location for the base has an extremely delicate ecosystem unique to Okinawa that the locals desperately want to protect.	distant_evaluation
The overall plans for the new base involve 157 hectares of land being reclaimed from pristine waters off the Henoko area and the building of a V-shaped runway.	cause_general
The plans stem from a pact made between the United States and Japan in 1996, with Henoko being selected as the replacement site in 1999.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-30 14:03:11|Editor: Chengcheng	error
"""Obviously we're going through a period of tension and uncertainty and strain,"" said David Pollock, a scholar at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy."	distant_evaluation
"For Ford O'Connell , a Republican strategist and TV personality, Washington has to ""make a stand here."""	distant_evaluation
"""The rest of the world is watching."	distant_evaluation
"And if he (Trump) doesn't take some sort of proportional action, it's going to send a message to the rest of the Arab world,"" O'Connell told Xinhua."	distant_expectations_consequences
"Pollock observed that there were already some ""symbols"" demonstrating America's disapproval of what happened to Khashoggi, including some individual sanctions and cancellation of some official meetings."	distant_evaluation
The U.S. State Department announced last week that it was revoking visas of Saudi officials suspected of involvement in the death of Khashoggi, a first concrete step of punishment taken by the U.S. government.	cause_general
But the move has been criticized as quite symbolic and bearing little practical consequence.	distant_evaluation
"""On the whole, I think the administration seems pretty set on maintaining the basic elements of this relationship,"" Pollock told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
Wayne White, a former U.S. State Department official, shared a similar view.	distant_evaluation
"""President Trump likely still hopes to get past the Khashoggi affair without serious damage to the U.S.-Saudi relationship,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Experts believe that the vital role Riyadh plays in Washington's comprehensive strategy of containing Iran would make the Trump administration reluctant to distance itself from the ally.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Any U.S. plans to confront Iran forcefully depend heavily on Saudi Arabia for basing, refueling, overflight rights, among others,"" noted White, who once served as deputy director of the Middle East Intelligence Office of the State Department."	distant_evaluation
"""The change in atmosphere (regarding U.S.-Saudi ties) is going to add another layer of complexity to the U.S. government's effort to contain and isolate and counter Iran, but it's not going to change the basic approach,"" Pollack said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""As a result of the murder and cover-up, it will be harder to use Saudi Arabia to pursue American interests in the Middle East,"" noted West."	distant_expectations_consequences
(Matthew Rusling from Washington also contributed to the story.)	error
WASHINGTON, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- As the ongoing investigation of the Saudi journalist's death continued to perplex the world, U.S. experts say the incident is unlikely to lead to a fundamental change for the U.S.-Saudi ties.	main
Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for Washington Post, has not been seen since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
Riyadh admitted that the 59-year-old was killed inside the consulate and 18 people were arrested over their alleged connections to the killing afterward.	cause_specific
"In its latest public statement, the White House said on Monday that the Trump administration ""is weighing different options"" in response to the case and will make an announcement later."	distant_evaluation
Since the disclosure of Khashoggi's murder, Washington has criticized the Saudi authorities for its handling of the case while President Donald Trump himself showed certain restraint on vocal attack against Riyadh.	distant_evaluation
Trump and his senior advisor Jared Kushner are key strong supporters of the Saudis while others may hold a different view, Darrell West, a Brookings Institution Senior Fellow, told Xinhua.	distant_evaluation
U.S. Congress soured on alliance with Riyadh following the case, calling for sanctions and a ban of arms sales to the kingdom.	cause_general
President Bush has chosen Fred F. Fielding as the new chief White House lawyer, adding to his team a longtime Washington legal hand and veteran of the post.	main
Mr.	distant_historical
Fielding was deputy counsel to President Richard M. Nixon under John W. Dean III and was White House counsel for the first five years of Ronald Reagan's presidency.	distant_historical
Since then, he has kept a hand in politics and government, helping screen job candidates for President Bush during and after his transition, and serving on the bipartisan Sept. 11 commission.	cause_general
Several friends said they believed that he had been under heavy pressure to return as White House counsel by an administration girding for a raft of investigations by the new Democratic Congress.	distant_evaluation
The news of his selection was first reported on Monday afternoon on the Time magazine Web site.	cause_general
Officials said Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding was always a leading candidate of the White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, who is said to have been seeking a possible change in the counsel's office from the moment he took over as chief of staff in April.	distant_evaluation
But several Republicans close to the White House said Mr. Bush swiftly dismissed that notion.	distant_evaluation
Ms. Miers had been Mr. Bush's lawyer in Texas and followed him here.	cause_general
Mr. Bush nominated her to the Supreme Court in 2005, but she withdrew amid criticism of her qualifications.	distant_historical
Mr.	distant_historical
Mr. Bolten pushed again for a new White House counsel after the Democrats won control of both chambers of Congress in November and he concluded that the president would need a more seasoned Washington creature in the months ahead, Republicans close to the administration said.	distant_evaluation
He found one in Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding, known as such an expert player of the inside game of Washington politics that he had even been suspected as Deep Throat, the confidential source of information who led to the disclosures of the Watergate scandal.	distant_evaluation
Mr.	distant_expectations_consequences
Fielding was not Deep Throat, but he is likely to bring a more sophisticated sense of the interplay among Congress, the news media and the White House than Ms. Miers.	distant_expectations_consequences
The selection of such a battle-hardened hand as Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding for the counsel post underscores the degree to which the White House is girding for potentially intense battles with Democrats.	distant_evaluation
He would help prepare for the possibility that the new Congress may use hearings and, possibly, subpoenas to challenge Mr. Bush's broad assertions of executive power.	distant_expectations_consequences
Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sounded a somewhat combative note.	distant_expectations_consequences
''I'm hopeful that he will understand that the best way to represent his client is to cooperate when the Congress asks for information,'' Mr. Waxman said in a telephone interview.	distant_expectations_consequences
Fielding forged his skills in politically charged episodes like Watergate and the air traffic controllers' strike in 1981.	distant_historical
Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding has a nuanced record on executive privilege and partisan confrontation.	distant_evaluation
Associates say he is as likely to head for the negotiating table as to the wrestling mat.	distant_evaluation
Lee H. Hamilton, the Democratic vice chairman of the Sept. 11 commission, said Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding had a major role in securing information and testimony from the White House that it was initially loathe to share.	distant_evaluation
''He understood the problems for the White House and he understood the demands of the commission,'' Mr. Hamilton said.	distant_evaluation
''He played a key role in working it out for us in an amicable way, and it didn't come easily.''	distant_evaluation
In the counsel's position, Mr.	distant_expectations_consequences
Fielding will lead a White House legal team that includes David S. Addington, the powerful chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney.	distant_expectations_consequences
Both officials have advocated a tough line in protecting executive power against perceived intrusions by Congress.	cause_general
White House officials said Mr. Bush would announce as early as Tuesday that Mr.	cause_specific
A Republican close to the White House said Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding had maintained close ties to Mr. Cheney, whom he has known for decades, and had occasionally been an informal adviser to him.	distant_evaluation
J. Michael Luttig, a former federal judge who worked with Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding in the Reagan administration and remains close to him, said:	distant_evaluation
''He has a firm, clear view of executive prerogative, but he also understands as well as anyone in Washington the constitutional need for compromise.	distant_evaluation
He is not someone that takes an absolutist position and then drives the presidency and the branches together off the brink.	distant_evaluation
He has judgment.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Luttig said Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding had wrestled somewhat with the decision to become White House counsel, but ultimately, ''He did this out of a sense of obligation and patriotism, and that was the sole reason.''	distant_evaluation
Republicans close to the White House said Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding would return as White House counsel, succeeding Harriet E. Miers, who announced her resignation last week.	cause_specific
Fielding had assurances of having a wide berth that he apparently received last week in a meeting with Mr. Bush.	distant_evaluation
Kenneth M. Duberstein, a chief of staff for Mr. Reagan, said because Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding had been an aide to two presidents he would not be cowed by the Oval Office or so charmed by the president that he would shy from giving potentially unwelcome advice.	distant_evaluation
''Fred has an independence of judgment and independence of stature,'' Mr. Duberstein said.	distant_evaluation
''He knows how to deliver tough news.''	distant_evaluation
All the same, Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding is clearly being brought in to draw legal lines in the sand.	distant_evaluation
''He brings enormous credibility to both sides, but he's the president's counsel,'' said Wayne Berman, a Republican lobbyist who is friendly with Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding and whose wife is the White House social secretary, Lea Berman.	distant_evaluation
''He's not there to represent the views of the Congress.''	distant_evaluation
The officials insisted on anonymity to discuss an unannounced personnel decision.	cause_general
Correction: January 20, 2007, Saturday A picture caption with a front-page article on Jan. 9 about the naming of Fred F. Fielding as the chief White House lawyer misspelled the surname of a woman, whose husband was killed in the Sept. 11 attacks, who spoke to Mr.	error
Fielding at a meeting of the Sept. 11 commission when he was on that panel.	error
She is Beverly Eckert, not Ecket.	error
Mr.	distant_evaluation
Fielding's agreement to take the job surprised some of his closest friends.	distant_evaluation
The friends said last week, when his name surfaced as a contender for the position, that they would be surprised if he would give up a successful corporate practice for another stint of what promises to be heavy partisan battle at age 67.	distant_evaluation
The new Democratic majority in Congress is divided over how to assert its power in opposing President Bush's plan to send more troops to Baghdad, as leaders explore ways to block financing for a military expansion without being accused of abandoning American forces already in Iraq.	main
The Kennedy plan is intended to provide Democrats with a road map for how to proceed in Iraq.	cause_general
Mr. Kennedy, as he begins his 45th year in the Senate, recalled that Congress interceded during conflicts in Vietnam and Lebanon, and he said Democrats should not hesitate to do so in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
The new House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, has similarly suggested that Democrats consider blocking financing for a troop increase, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, vowed Monday ''to take a look at it.''	cause_specific
But the House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, has not endorsed the idea.	cause_specific
Other Democrats, either looking ahead to a possible presidential candidacy or their own re-elections, have also distanced themselves from such a proposal, fearful of being cast as opposing the troops.	cause_specific
''I don't think we should be pulling back any funds,'' said Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat who was elected in November.	distant_evaluation
She said she would oppose a proposal to block money for a troop increase.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Democratic Party sailed to victory in midterm elections in the fall on a promise to change course in Iraq.	cause_general
Still, there is little consensus over how to proceed.	cause_general
Some Democrats are urging an immediate withdrawal of troops and a drastic reduction in war spending.	cause_specific
While Democrats find themselves unusually united in their resistance to a troop increase, party leaders are locked in an internal debate over how far to go in objecting to the administration's Iraq strategy.	main
Others are calling for a gradual re-deployment of troops to move them out of Iraq.	cause_specific
Still other Democrats are waiting for Mr. Bush to present his plan before criticizing it.	cause_specific
The expectations set by the elections, Democrats say, present a complicating challenge as they begin to govern.	distant_evaluation
Take, for example, Mr. Reid, who said on Dec. 17 that he would support a plan for a temporary increase in increase troops.	distant_expectations_consequences
Two weeks later, he announced his opposition, saying his change had nothing to do with other Democratic senators having spoken out against it, but rather with military officials having disagreed with a call for more troops.	distant_expectations_consequences
Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, said he believed that his party lost the White House in 2004 because of Iraq.	distant_evaluation
''My concern now is that too many Democrats are going to want to play it safe on this issue and not take the strong stand that American people demand,'' he said Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The pressure from war critics on the Democratic left has been particularly intense.	distant_evaluation
''The bottom line is that they were elected on a mandate to get the nation out of the mess in Iraq,'' said Eli Pariser, the executive director of MoveOn.org, a liberal political action committee.	distant_evaluation
By law, Congress can limit the nature of troop deployments, cap the size of military deployments and cut financing for existing or prospective deployments.	cause_general
The White House has invited some Democrats to meet with Mr. Bush before he gives his Iraq speech on Wednesday, even as others have scoured the history books to find cases when Congress has reined in the commander in chief.	cause_general
Since 1970, there have been dozens of occasions in which Congress has tried to step into military action, from Haiti to Bosnia to Kosovo, according to a memorandum being sent Tuesday to lawmakers by the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy group.	cause_general
Representative Adam Smith of Washington, vice chairman of the moderate New Democratic Coalition, said he feared that withholding financing -- even for new troops being sent to Iraq -- could have a detrimental effect on all forces.	distant_expectations_consequences
''I don't want our troops to be caught between the president and Congress in a political fight,'' said Mr. Smith, who was to receive a briefing on Tuesday at the White House.	distant_evaluation
''If there are any risks that our efforts to slash the budget would place them at greater risk, that would be unacceptable to me.''	distant_evaluation
But Democrats who are trying to stop Mr. Bush's proposed troop increase, a group led by Mr. Kennedy, say their proposal to block financing will apply only to new troops.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Kennedy said he hoped that his legislation would be urgently considered by the full Senate, but acknowledged that it remained an open question whether his Democratic leaders would schedule it for a quick vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
''The importance of this legislation is that it will apply now before we could get the escalation,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''If you wait, this thing is going to be past.	distant_evaluation
I'm not sure that all of our colleagues in the Senate understand that, quite frankly.''	distant_evaluation
THE REACH OF WAR	error
In the most aggressive of the new tactics, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has said he will introduce legislation on Tuesday to require the president to gain new Congressional authority before sending more troops to Iraq.	cause_specific
The bill is the first proposal in the Senate that would prohibit paying for an increase in American troops over their level on Jan. 1.	cause_general
''Is there any American in this country who thinks the United States Senate would vote to support sending American troops into a civil war in Iraq today?''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Kennedy said Monday in an interview.	distant_evaluation
''Is there any American that believes this?	distant_evaluation
I don't think so, but that is what's happening, and we have to do everything we can to insist on accountability.''	distant_evaluation
Egyptian officials are hoping to add powers to the Constitution that would allow the president to more easily dissolve Parliament and give him free rein to suspend civil liberties and imprison anyone deemed a terrorist threat.	main
The government, however, says the amendments would allow true reform because they would also redistribute powers among the president, the government and Parliament.	distant_expectations_consequences
Parliament, for example, could with a two-thirds vote cause the collapse of the government.	distant_evaluation
But the president would have the power to dissolve Parliament without first asking for a public referendum, as current law requires.	distant_evaluation
The amendments were debated for months in Parliament, then emerged largely unchanged from what had been proposed by the government and the governing party of President Hosni Mubarak.	distant_evaluation
The State Information Service, the public relations arm of the government, plans to publish a summary of the amendments in every newspaper over three days, starting Saturday -- just two days before the polls open.	cause_general
The actual text of the amendment is not widely available.	cause_general
The election had been planned for the first week of April, but it was moved to Monday in a late night vote a week ago in Parliament.	cause_general
''We are not telling people what to do; we are asking them to participate,'' said Ayman al-Kaffas, chairman of the State Information Service.	distant_evaluation
''We are trying to guarantee maximum integrity of the process, not the outcome of the process.''	distant_evaluation
Opposition groups, including the popular Muslim Brotherhood, have urged a boycott of the election.	distant_evaluation
The Egyptian public will be asked to vote Monday on a package of 34 amendments to the Constitution that the government says represent political reform, in part by making it easier for opposition candidates to run for president.	main
With little doubt about the outcome -- no referendum has failed in modern Egypt -- Amnesty International said in a statement that the proposals represented ''the greatest erosion of human rights in 26 years.''	distant_evaluation
In equally harsh language, it charged that the antiterrorism provisions would ''simply entrench the long-standing system of abuse'' in place since the adoption of emergency laws after President Anwar el-Sadat was assassinated in 1981.	distant_expectations_consequences
The government strongly objected to Amnesty International's assessment, and Mr. Kaffas said antiterrorism laws, while necessary, were often unpopular, including the Patriot Act in the United States.	distant_evaluation
But anxiety permeated the ranks of the governing party as well.	distant_evaluation
Abdel Moneim Said, a member of the governing National Democratic Party and director of Egypt's premier research center, the government-financed Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo, acknowledged concerns over aspects of the changes that could permit ''an abuse of power.''	distant_expectations_consequences
But he said the changes could also push the country toward reform.	distant_expectations_consequences
''I think it is the accumulation of little additions here and there that can generate change eventually,'' he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The move is occurring at a time when the government is showing less tolerance for criticism and political opposition.	distant_evaluation
It has jailed opposition critics, including a member of Parliament and a former presidential candidate; it delayed local council elections by two years; it sentenced a blogger who had criticized the president to four years in prison; it has had troops fire on would-be voters to keep them away from the polls; and it has cracked down on the Muslim Brotherhood, arresting members and freezing assets.	cause_general
The Brotherhood is a banned but tolerated organization that has won wide public support by offering a network of social services throughout the country.	cause_general
But political opposition and international human rights groups say the package appears more an effort by the governing party to secure its monopoly on power and give constitutional legitimacy to police powers that have long been criticized as excessive and undemocratic.	distant_evaluation
While the crackdown and the amendments would inhibit the Brotherhood's political activities, the group said it would do little to shut down the grassroots operations it has used to build support.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We can we do?''	distant_evaluation
said Muhammad Habib, deputy leader of the Brotherhood.	distant_evaluation
''There is not much we can do except increase our activity and our reach to the people.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Egypt receives about $1.7 billion a year in American military and development aid, and at one time was held up by the White House as the vanguard for Democratic changes in the region.	cause_general
But the Bush administration's pressure on Mr. Mubarak to enact such changes has evaporated as it has increasingly sought help in dealing with Iran, Iraq and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.	cause_general
The United States has been tentative in its comments on the referendum, with the State Department initially saying it was an internal matter for Egypt and the secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, later telling reporters it was ''disappointing.''	distant_evaluation
At a news conference in Aswan on Saturday morning with the United Nations secretary general, Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit sharply rejected Ms. Rice's remarks, saying, ''This is our own development, our own country.''	distant_evaluation
In a televised speech later, Mr. Mubarak insisted that Egypt would never bend to foreign ''pressure, dictation or prerequisites.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The sharpest debate has been over three areas of proposed change.	cause_general
One would ultimately allow broad powers to monitor and detain people accused of terrorist activities while not specifically defining terrorism.	cause_general
Another would limit the role of judges in monitoring elections, which are often mired in accusations of fraud.	cause_general
And a third would prohibit the creation of any religious political parties.	cause_general
''There is one political regime, and one ruling party with a monopoly over power and wealth, and it wants to give the false impression that there is an ongoing process of political reform,'' said Hassan Nafaa, a political scientist at Cairo University.	distant_evaluation
''In reality, it is an assertion of the control of the ruling party.''	distant_evaluation
Three Republican senators voiced fresh concerns on Sunday about Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales's handling of the dismissals of eight United States attorneys amid questions about whether the firings were politically motivated.	main
And if we find he has not been candid and truthful, that's a very compelling reason for him not to stay on.''	main
Mr. Specter, who has split with the administration on issues including domestic spying and the legal rights of terror suspects, is the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.	cause_general
Speaking on ''This Week'' on ABC, Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, said of Mr. Gonzales, ''He does have a credibility problem,'' adding, ''I think he's going to have some difficulties.''	main
Asked by the host, George Stephanopoulos, whether Mr. Gonzales could serve effectively given the questions about his credibility, Mr. Hagel responded, ''Well, I do not, and I think the president is going to have to make a tough choice here.''	main
Mr. Hagel has been a major Republican critic of Mr. Bush's handling of the Iraq war and is a potential 2008 presidential candidate.	distant_expectations_consequences
Senator Lindsay Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of the Judiciary Committee, said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, ''I really do like Attorney General Gonzales, but he has been wounded.''	main
Mr. Graham added: ''He's going to have to come to the Senate and re-establish his credibility.	main
He's going to have to prove to us that there was a legitimate reason this was poorly handled.''	main
All three senators broke with the White House over conditions for possible Congressional interviews in the matter with White House aides, including Karl Rove, the president's top political adviser, and Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel.	cause_general
The president has offered to allow the aides to sit for private interviews with Congress if the sessions are not transcribed or conducted under oath.	cause_general
The comments, made in separate televised interviews by Republicans with histories of breaking with the White House, provided further indication of waning support for Mr. Gonzales where he needs it most, among fellow Republicans.	main
Mr. Graham, Mr. Hagel and Mr. Specter said the interviews should at least be transcribed for the sake of accuracy and transparency.	distant_evaluation
On Sunday, the White House found its strongest Republican defender in a onetime adversary, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican whip.	cause_general
In an interview on ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Lott mocked the Democrats for charging that politics were involved in decisions involving political appointees.	distant_evaluation
''The horrors of horrors -- my goodness,'' Mr. Lott said.	distant_evaluation
''How were they selected in the first place?''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Lott also defended Mr. Bush's decision to invoke executive privilege in refusing to provide his aides for sworn testimony before Congress, saying ''he'd be making a huge mistake'' if he decided otherwise.	distant_evaluation
Later Sunday, the Democratic National Committee provided a list of quotations from Mr. Lott criticizing former President Bill Clinton for invoking executive privilege during the investigation into his relationship with Monica Lewinsky, including one in 1998 in which Mr. Lott called it improper and said, ''It looks like they are hiding something.''	cause_general
Also on Sunday, in an interview on ''Late Edition'' on CNN, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and a member of the Judiciary Committee, defended the terms under which Mr. Bush said his aides could be interviewed and said he still had full confidence in Mr. Gonzales.	distant_evaluation
And on ''Fox News Sunday,'' Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who initially held off from calling for Mr. Gonzales's resignation, said: ''I believe he should step down.	distant_evaluation
And I don't like saying this.	distant_evaluation
Questions over Mr. Gonzales's future intensified on both sides of the aisle this weekend, after the release of Justice Department documents late Friday that detailed plans for a meeting between Mr. Gonzales and his aides in which they discussed the dismissals last year, 10 days before most of them happened.	cause_specific
This is not my natural personality at all.	distant_evaluation
But I think the nation is not well-served by this.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Gonzales had previously said that he was ''not involved in any discussions about what was going on'' and that he had mostly followed the process from a distance.	cause_general
Speaking on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said he spoke with Mr. Gonzales on Saturday and told him ''he was going to have to have an explanation as to why he said he wasn't involved in discussions -- that's the key word -- and now you have these e-mails which appear to contradict that.''	main
White House officials continued to defend Mr. Gonzales, saying the e-mail messages did not directly contradict anything he had said and noting that he had not disputed that at the end of the process he signed off on the final list of prosecutors to be dismissed.	distant_evaluation
President Bush said in his Saturday radio address that he strongly supported Mr. Gonzales in the decision to oust the prosecutors, though he has said he believes that more explanation is necessary.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Specter said Sunday that he would withhold judgment until he could learn more about the dismissals in Congressional testimony from Mr. Gonzales and others.	main
But he added: ''We have to have an attorney general who is candid, truthful.	main
As the Senate opened debate Monday on a $122 billion Iraq spending bill, Republicans vowed not to allow Congress to impose a withdrawal date for American troops, but said they would rely on President Bush's veto pen rather than procedural maneuvers to block it.	main
''He can swagger all he wants,'' Mr. Reid said, ''but we have 3,241 dead Americans.''	distant_evaluation
The Senate legislation, in addition to financing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for the next six months, also would set a nonbinding goal of March 31, 2008, for most combat troops to be removed from Iraq.	cause_general
The measure calls for a gradual redeployment of forces beginning in four months.	cause_general
Several Republicans took to the Senate floor on Monday, criticizing Democrats for including about $20 billion for domestic programs in the spending request.	distant_evaluation
Senators were also considering attaching such issues as the minimum wage increase to the legislation.	distant_evaluation
The version that passed in the House last week included a long list of items not related to Iraq.	cause_general
''Really, what we have is a game of chicken between the House of Representatives that has larded up this appropriations bill with a lot of pork,'' said Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican.	distant_evaluation
The deliberations on Iraq, the latest in a string of debates between the House and Senate, opened against the backdrop of a nation looking for a new direction in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
Six in 10 Americans say they want Congress to support a troop withdrawal plan by August 2008, according to a Pew Research Center poll released Monday.	cause_general
Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said the legislation would force the administration to take a new course in Iraq, in addition to establishing a series of benchmarks for the Iraqi government.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Bush has vowed to veto any legislation that establishes a specific timetable to remove combat troops from Iraq.	cause_specific
He defended the domestic spending provisions in the bill, particularly drought assistance to farmers and resources to rebuild levees in Louisiana devastated by Hurricane Katrina.	distant_evaluation
''Funding for the war is not the only critical need worthy of supplemental funding this year,'' Mr. Byrd said.	distant_evaluation
''The war must not obliterate every other concern.''	distant_evaluation
Throughout several weeks of debate on Iraq, a majority of Democrats and Republicans have voted with their respective parties, creating little legislative progress in the Senate.	cause_general
But Democrats have not been able to muster the votes they need to overcome legislative roadblocks by Republicans to proposals to set withdrawal dates.	cause_general
The prospects of this week's Iraq debate remain uncertain.	distant_expectations_consequences
Even after the Senate advances some type of spending bill, lawmakers will have to reconcile differences in the House version, most notably the withdrawal date, and draft a new proposal altogether if the president follows through with his veto pledge.	distant_expectations_consequences
''I can't think of another conflict in which a deadline was set in the middle of the war that one side would withdraw from the conflict,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chairman of the Republican Conference.	distant_evaluation
''It's a heck of a way to fight a war.''	distant_evaluation
Several Republicans spoke on the Senate floor during the opening hours of debate on Monday, suggesting Democrats were abandoning the troops.	distant_evaluation
The Democratic-led House has passed such a plan, and Senate Democratic leaders are seeking to advance a similar measure this week, but the party does not have enough votes in either chamber to override a veto.	cause_general
As he explained the bill, Mr. Byrd, the longest-serving member of the Senate, offered a full-throated defense.	cause_general
''The bill before the Senate includes a provision that would give the war a new direction, and points the way out of the civil war in Iraq,'' Mr. Byrd said.	distant_expectations_consequences
''There is no restriction on funding for the troops.''	distant_evaluation
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
For weeks, Republican leaders have used procedural maneuvers to delay a debate over Iraq.	cause_general
But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said he did not want to hold up financing for the war by spending more time than necessary on a measure that will never become law.	distant_evaluation
Republicans signaled that they would not use procedural measures to block the bill, but would instead let the White House kill it and then urge Democrats to pass a bill that provides funding for the war without setting any dates for troop withdrawals.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We need to get the bill on down to the president and get the veto out of the way,'' Senator McConnell said.	distant_evaluation
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, played down the veto threat.	cause_general
In a speech on the Senate floor on Monday, Mr. Reid said the president was on the wrong side of public opinion.	distant_evaluation
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani announced Monday that they plan to introduce a proposal that would allow thousands more former members of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party to serve in the government.	main
Then the courts would have six months to rule.	cause_general
Any claims brought subsequently would be thrown out.	cause_general
The goal of the new law is to take a step toward reconciling Sunnis and Shiites, said Dr. Sadiq al-Raqadi, a political adviser to Mr. Maliki.	distant_expectations_consequences
''The reason for the new law is that the government wants to finish these cases; they want to close the files of the Baathists,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''This is an effort to find a solution for the problem of the Baathists.''	distant_evaluation
The Iraqi government's move, one of several aspects of reconciliation, comes not a moment too soon in Mr. Khalilzad's view.	distant_evaluation
''To sustain U.S. support, things have to move at a certain pace,'' Mr. Khalilzad said.	distant_evaluation
And, time is running out, he said.	distant_evaluation
The United States House of Representatives voted last week to begin withdrawing troops by the fall of 2008, and the Senate plans to consider a less restrictive plan, though it is unclear what the final outcome of the legislative effort will be.	cause_specific
Mr. Khalilzad served for 21 months in Iraq, during the drafting of the country's Constitution as well as the second nationwide election and a referendum approving the Constitution.	cause_general
The plan, if it were to gain approval, would be an important step toward reconciling Iraq's warring Shiites, who lead the government now, and Sunnis, who dominated the Hussein government.	distant_evaluation
If, as expected, the United States Senate approves his nomination, he will become the American ambassador to the United Nations.	distant_expectations_consequences
He will be replaced by Ryan Crocker, a career diplomat, who is currently the ambassador to Pakistan.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Iraqi government's move to modify the de-Baathification law, if it goes through, would be a victory for Mr. Khalilzad who pushed hard to bring Sunnis back into the government.	distant_evaluation
Recently, American diplomats and military officials along with Iraqi government officials, including Mr. Maliki, have reached out to Sunni militants in an effort to woo those elements of the insurgency whom Mr. Khalilzad described as ''reconcilable insurgents'' and isolate the most violent elements.	cause_general
''There is a real struggle going on in the Sunni Arab part of Iraq between those of Al Qaeda and the other more patriotic groups who want a successful Iraq, an Iraq in which everyone's rights is respected,'' said Mr. Khalilzad.	distant_evaluation
Most of these ''patriotic groups'' were linked to Mr. Hussein's former government rather than to the Sunni religious militants with ties to Al Qaeda.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Khalilzad underscored that there would be no discussions with individuals linked to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the insurgent group that claims ties to the Qaeda organization, which has been associated with some of the most destructive attacks in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Khalilzad noted that in the six weeks since the American-backed security plan began, attacks had dropped 25 percent.	cause_general
Baghdad seemed relatively quiet on Monday.	distant_evaluation
There were several improvised explosive devices that killed one Iraqi civilian and one policeman.	cause_general
The announcement by the prime minister's office came just hours after the outgoing American ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, gave his final news conference in which he repeatedly emphasized that the Iraqi government's slowness to change the draconian de-Baathification laws, among others, had contributed to American skepticism about Iraq's commitment to finding a political solution to the sectarian strife troubling the country.	cause_specific
Fifteen unidentified bodies were found.	cause_general
National Public Radio on Monday reported an episode on Saturday in which gunmen opened fire on children playing soccer in Baghdad, followed by a battle between Sunni and Shiite neighbors.	distant_anecdotal
The details could not be verified on Monday.	distant_anecdotal
In Hilla, south of Baghdad, three Sunni mosques were attacked, apparently in retribution for an attack on a Shiite mosque three days earlier.	cause_general
In Iskandariya, American and Iraqi forces were attacked by insurgents hiding in a mosque who used rocket propelled grenades as well as guns.	cause_general
The Iraqi soldiers entered the mosque and in the course of fighting injured two insurgents and killed one.	cause_general
The American military also announced that it had captured the leaders of a major car bomb ring in Baghdad responsible for the deaths of more than 900 Iraqis.	cause_general
Two suicide truck bombs exploded near Ramadi, but initial reports indicated they had killed only the drivers.	cause_general
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
The lack of movement had also hampered efforts at reconciliation between the Sunnis and Shiites, he said, since the Sunnis have had little faith that the Shiite government would do anything concrete to help them.	distant_evaluation
Changing the de-Baathification laws was one of the political goals for the Iraqi government set by the Bush administration six months ago.	distant_historical
Under the proposal by the prime minister and the president, which comes on the heels of meetings held between Mr. Maliki and Sunni insurgent leaders and appears to be an effort to back up his outreach with action, all Baathists would be able to collect their pensions.	main
In addition, thousands more former Baathists would be allowed to hold government jobs than under the current law.	main
Former Baathists who return to government work would have to sign a pledge that they would refrain from making political statements about the current government.	cause_general
The law would also set a three-month time limit for Iraqi citizens who have complaints against former Baathists to bring a claim.	cause_general
The Senate went on record for the first time on Tuesday in favor of a withdrawal date from Iraq, with Democrats marshaling the votes they needed to deliver a forceful rebuke to President Bush's war policy.	main
The Senate action increases the likelihood that Congress and Mr. Bush will engage in a confrontation over the financing of the war.	distant_expectations_consequences
The outcome of the Senate vote took both parties by surprise.	distant_evaluation
Republicans were stung by the defection of Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, who has not supported a timetable for withdrawal before although he is his party's most outspoken critic of the war in Congress.	distant_evaluation
''There will not be a military solution to Iraq,'' Mr. Hagel declared.	distant_evaluation
''Iraq belongs to the 25 million Iraqis who live there.	distant_evaluation
It doesn't belong to the United States.	distant_evaluation
Iraq is not a prize to be won or lost.''	distant_evaluation
The Democrats also gained the vote of Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, who voted against a withdrawal date just two weeks ago.	cause_specific
''People want our troops home,'' Mr. Nelson said.	distant_evaluation
The two other senators who crossed party lines were Gordon H. Smith, an Oregon Republican, who supported the withdrawal date, and Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat, who opposed the plan.	cause_specific
By a vote of 50 to 48, with a few crucial votes shifting in favor of the Democratic position, the Senate rejected a Republican effort to strip from the military spending bill any mention of a withdrawal date.	main
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, voted with the Republicans.	cause_specific
The Senate vote was seen as a victory for Democrats, if only because Republicans had already agreed not to stand in the way of the legislation by mounting a filibuster that requires 60 votes to pass a bill.	distant_evaluation
Republican leaders said they preferred to allow Mr. Bush to veto the bill, rather than use procedural maneuvers to block the measure, which would provide $122 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.	distant_evaluation
The impassioned debate on Tuesday illustrated that majorities in each party remained hardened in their views.	distant_evaluation
Vice President Dick Cheney, who also serves as president of the Senate, arrived in the Capitol a few minutes before 5 p.m. to be on hand in the event of a tie.	cause_general
Two senators were not present: Mike Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, and Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota, who is in rehabilitation after a brain hemorrhage.	cause_general
As the debate opened Tuesday, several Republicans spoke forcefully against the notion of setting a specific date -- even a nonbinding one -- to get troops out of Iraq.	cause_general
Several Republican senators argued that the Congressional debate over Iraq has failed to factor in new developments in the country, where military commanders report signs of progress.	distant_evaluation
''This bill should be named the Date Certain for Surrender Act,'' said Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican.	distant_evaluation
''A second-year cadet at West Point could tell you that if you announce when the end will be, it's a recipe for defeat.''	distant_evaluation
The legislation will now move forward with a nonbinding goal of beginning a gradual withdrawal of American troops from Iraq within 120 days of the measure's enactment, with a pullout by March 31, 2008.	cause_general
Mr. McCain, who had planned to be away from the Capitol on Tuesday campaigning for his presidential bid, turned to a large map of Iraq positioned next to him on an easel as he made his argument.	cause_general
He pointed to areas around the country where Gen. David H. Petraeus, the American commander, has reported some success in his new military plan.	cause_general
''We cannot give up,'' Mr. McCain said, ''just as we are starting to turn things around in Iraq.''	distant_evaluation
The Senate action on Tuesday alters the dynamics of eventual negotiations between the House and Senate to reconcile their different approaches.	distant_evaluation
Had Republicans prevailed, the Senate bill would have had no timetable, while the House version required a withdrawal no later than Sept. 1, 2008.	distant_evaluation
Democratic leaders were considering whether they should eliminate the timeline entirely before sending the measure to Mr. Bush, but with both chambers approving a time frame, it is now almost certain a final measure will include some requirements for withdrawal.	distant_expectations_consequences
Dana Perino, the deputy White House press secretary, said the president was ''disappointed that the Senate continues down a path with a bill that he will veto and has no chance of becoming law.''	distant_evaluation
She said Congress should allow General Petraeus's mission to succeed ''by providing our troops the funding they need -- not by mandating failure.''	distant_evaluation
But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a war critic since the conflict began four years ago, said the combination of the House and Senate votes was momentous.	distant_evaluation
He said it showed how far the Democratic Congress had come toward removing troops since the beginning of the year, adding that political and policy momentum was on their side.	distant_evaluation
''When it comes to the war in Iraq, the American people have spoken, the House and Senate have spoken,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No.	distant_evaluation
''Rather than continuing to defy the will of the American people and Congress by threatening to veto this legislation,'' Mr. Kennedy said, ''President Bush should put the Iraqis on notice.''	distant_evaluation
Three more Republicans who have expressed serious reservations about the course of the war -- Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Norm Coleman of Minnesota and John W. Warner of Virginia -- sided with their colleagues in trying to strip the timetable from the spending legislation.	cause_specific
All three senators are facing tough re-election fights next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ms. Collins said she was more troubled by the requirement that the administration begin removing troops within 120 days of the legislation rather than the March 2008 deadline for having most of the military out.	distant_evaluation
''I don't think it is wise to have an abrupt withdrawal from Iraq,'' said Ms. Collins, who said she was willing to wait until August to see if the continuing troop increase improves conditions there.	distant_evaluation
''This doesn't mean I support an unending commitment of our troops in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
I don't.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Coleman said he believed that the Democratic plan was intended to score political points and that establishing such a public timeline for getting out of Iraq was militarily ill-advised.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Warner, who has criticized the administration's conduct of the war, said he remained committed to changing policy in Iraq, but not by imposing Congressional timetables on American troops.	distant_evaluation
''It would be the bugle of retreat,'' Mr. Warner said.	distant_expectations_consequences
2 Democrat in the Senate.	distant_evaluation
''It would be echoed and repeated from every minaret through Iraq: the coalition forces have decided to take the first step backward.	distant_expectations_consequences
We cannot send that message.	distant_evaluation
Not at this time.''	distant_evaluation
Correction: March 29, 2007, Thursday Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about a vote by the Senate to support a date for withdrawing troops from Iraq misstated the withdrawal provision in the Senate legislation.	cause_general
Beginning a pullout of American troops within 120 days of the measure's enactment is a requirement, not a goal.	cause_general
Completing the pullout by March 31, 2008, is a nonbinding goal of the legislation.	cause_general
''Now, we hope the president is listening.''	distant_evaluation
Senators still must vote on the overall legislation this week, and then their bill must be reconciled with a House measure passed Friday.	cause_general
The House voted 218 to 212 for a binding measure requiring the president to bring most American combat troops home from Iraq by September 2008.	cause_specific
A few minutes after the vote on Tuesday in the Senate, the White House repeated its vow to veto any legislation containing a withdrawal date.	cause_general
With both houses of Congress now firmly on record in favor of withdrawing from Iraq, President Bush vowed Wednesday not to negotiate a timetable with Democrats, and a confrontation appeared inevitable as each side prepared to blame the other for delays in providing money for the war.	main
And Democrats seemed eager to give it to him.	distant_evaluation
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House speaker, said Mr. Bush should ''calm down with the threats,'' and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said his impression was that Mr. Bush ''doesn't want anything other than a confrontation.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The president has been saying for weeks that he will veto any war spending bill that contains a withdrawal date.	cause_general
He reiterated that threat on Wednesday, taking particular aim at Democrats for loading the military spending bills with unrelated special interest projects above the $100 billion he has asked for the war, including $3.5 million for visitors to ''tour the Capitol and see for themselves how Congress works,'' and $6.4 million for the House of Representatives' ''salaries and expense accounts.''	cause_general
''I don't know what that is,'' Mr. Bush said wryly, ''but it's not related to the war and protecting the United States of America.''	main
The House approved its version of the spending bill last week, and the Senate was expected to approve its version on Thursday.	cause_general
Democrats said they were ready to begin House-Senate negotiations quickly to produce a final version to send to the president.	distant_evaluation
But with Congress scheduled to begin its Easter recess on Friday, it is nearly impossible for lawmakers to produce a final bill before the week of April 16.	distant_expectations_consequences
With Mr. Bush warning that funds will run out on April 15, forcing the Pentagon to draw from other accounts, the two sides seem certain to wind up in a blame game over who is responsible for holding up the money.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Democratic leaders, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Reid, tried to strike a conciliatory tone, stressing that they would deliver all the money Mr. Bush requested.	distant_evaluation
''Now, some of them believe that by delaying funding for our troops, they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely,'' Mr. Bush told an audience of cattlemen and ranchers.	main
In a joint letter to the president, they said they stood ready to work with the White House.	distant_evaluation
''But your threats to veto a bill that has not even been presented to you indicate that you may not be ready to work with us,'' the letter said.	distant_expectations_consequences
While they are hoping to capitalize on Mr. Bush's unpopularity, Democrats acknowledged privately that they were uncertain how the finger-pointing would play out.	distant_evaluation
Some recalled President Clinton's success in putting the blame on Republicans for a 1995 government shutdown.	distant_historical
Republicans say Mr. Bush may be unpopular, but his policy of sending additional troops to Iraq may have more support than he does.	distant_evaluation
Despite a recent nationwide telephone poll by the Pew Research Center for People and the Press in which 59 percent of those who responded said they wanted their lawmakers to vote in favor of a timetable for withdrawal, aides to Mr. Bush say the public is beginning to see improvements on the ground in Iraq and is willing to give Mr. Bush's troop buildup a chance.	distant_evaluation
''We hope it doesn't have to come to this type of brinksmanship, staring down the Congress, but as you saw today the president feels very strongly,'' said Dan Bartlett, counselor to Mr. Bush.	distant_evaluation
''The feedback we've been getting from our allies on the Hill -- and we agree with them -- is that this is an issue we shouldn't shirk from.''	distant_evaluation
Democratic officials say the shape of the measure that will be sent to the president remains unclear, but it is almost certain to have some timeline on Iraq, given the votes in both houses.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Democrats also say they intend to pare down some of the nonwar spending in the bill to quiet Republican accusations of pork-barrel politics.	distant_expectations_consequences
''That's not going to happen.	main
Democrats also acknowledge that even with the unpopularity of the war, they must move carefully.	distant_evaluation
The House bill passed with just 218 votes, the minimum necessary to guarantee passage, and in the Senate, the provision to set a goal of pulling out by March 31, 2008, also passed narrowly, 50 to 48.	cause_general
''The president does have leverage on the troops, and given the close votes, we have to be cognizant of that,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic caucus.	distant_evaluation
''But we have leverage on the policy and he has to be cognizant of that.''	distant_evaluation
Republicans say Mr. Bush must move carefully as well.	distant_evaluation
Charlie Black, a Republican strategist who is close to the White House, said the administration could win the argument with the public ''if they handle it right and communicate it well.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Republican leaders say they will back Mr. Bush as he tries to make the case to the public that Congress does not have the power to dictate the management of the war.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We have a constitutional republic that says the commander in chief of our forces is the president,'' said Senator Mel Martinez, the Florida Republican who is also chairman of the Republican National Committee.	cause_general
''It gives the power of the purse to Congress; it doesn't give the power of moving troops around to Congress.''	distant_evaluation
If Congress fails to pass a bill to fund our troops on the front lines, the American people will know who to hold responsible.''	main
Mr. Bush and Congressional Democrats are already deadlocked over the Democrats' demands for testimony from top White House officials in an inquiry into the firing of federal prosecutors.	cause_general
The president's remarks on Wednesday, a day after the Senate voted for the first time in favor of setting a withdrawal date, set the stage for a second clash.	distant_expectations_consequences
That puts Mr. Bush in the difficult position of fighting the new Democratic majority on two fronts, both the war spending and the prosecutors.	distant_evaluation
On Wednesday, he seemed in no mood to back down from the war spending fight.	distant_evaluation
As he quoted a newspaper editorial -- from The Los Angeles Times, though he did not mention it by name -- accusing Democrats of ''the worst kind of Congressional meddling in military strategy,'' Mr. Bush appeared almost eager for a battle.	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON – A Mexican drug cartel member pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court here Thursday to the murder of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agent Jaime Zapata of Brownsville during an ambush in Mexico.	main
When the agents refused and tried to identify themselves as American diplomats from the U.S. Embassy, the hit squad members fired into the vehicle.	distant_historical
The Zeta members continued to fire at the vehicle as the agents tried to escape by driving away.	distant_historical
Zapata died from gunshot wounds he suffered in the attack.	distant_historical
The suspects were later captured by Mexican authorities.	distant_historical
Espinoza was extradited to Washington to face murder and attempted murder charges.	cause_general
Ronald Machen(CQ), the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said the attack on U.S. agents demanded ''an intense, dedicated and forceful response.''	distant_evaluation
Machen said the response served as a message to others that if you commit an act against a U.S. law enforcement agent in a foreign land, ''we will not forget, we will not falter and we will not rest until you are brought to justice.''	distant_evaluation
The 2011 attack on the two U.S. agents in Mexico also led to the arrest and conviction on weapons violations of a Dallas-area man, Otilio Osorio, who illegally sold a replica AK-47 assault rifle that was found at the murder scene.	cause_general
The attack also prompted outrage in Congress.	distant_evaluation
A bipartisan bill passed last year, and spearheaded by Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin; Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo; and Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi, authorized $10 million over five years for cross-border training for U.S. and Mexican law enforcement and military.	distant_historical
Julian Zapata Espinoza, 32, known as ''El Piolin’' or ''Tweety Bird,'' also pleaded guilty to the attempted murder of ICE special agent Victor Avila, according to Justice Department officials.	main
The bipartisan bill was named for agent Zapata, 32, who served in Laredo before he was transferred to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security investigations unit on human trafficking and smuggling in Mexico.	distant_historical
''Special agent Zapata died for his country in a senseless brutal attack, and special agent Avila was grievously wounded in the same ambush by members of the Los Zetas cartel,'' said Mythili(CQ) Raman(CQ), acting assistant U.S. attorney.	cause_specific
Following the plea, the federal court unsealed documents that revealed the guilty pleas of three other defendants in the Mexico ambush who were also charged with murder, attempted murder and racketeering.	cause_general
Ruben Dario Venegas Rivera, 25 and Jose Ismael Nava Villagran, 30, pleaded guilty to murder and attempted murder.	cause_general
Francisco Carbajal Flores, 38, pleaded guilty to racketeering.	cause_general
Espinoza, Rivera and Villagran admitted to being members of a Los Zetas hit squad who participated in the Feb. 15, 2011 ambush of the special agents.	cause_specific
The agents were serving as ICE agents in Mexico when they were surrounded and forced off the highway while traveling between Mexico City and Monterrey, near San Luis Potosi.	distant_historical
Espinoza ordered the agents out of the vehicle.	distant_historical
WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama defied Republican critics Thursday by nominating to a high-ranking State Department job an official involved in editing controversial talking points about the attack last year in Libya.	main
He retired as a lieutenant general in 2010, remaining in the White House as a civilian and helping shape the president’s plan to withdraw combat forces by the end of 2014.	cause_general
Obama sent the Senate his choice of Victoria Nuland, a former spokeswoman for the State Department, as assistant secretary for European and Eurasian affairs.	main
Nuland had long been in line for the position, but some had questioned whether the nomination would go forward after drafts of the talking points became public.	distant_evaluation
Nuland suggested revisions to talking points prepared by the CIA after the terrorist attack that killed four Americans at the diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11.	cause_general
In an email, she urged deleting mention of past warnings of terrorism in Libya because lawmakers could use that “to beat the State Department for not paying attention.”	distant_evaluation
Her confirmation hearings may serve to revive the furor.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Nuland, a career Foreign Service officer, has strong ties on both sides of the aisle, having served as deputy national security adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney and ambassador to NATO under President George W. Bush.	distant_evaluation
Obama on Thursday also nominated Douglas E. Lute, his adviser on Afghanistan and Pakistan, to be the next ambassador to NATO, replacing Ivo Daalder, who is leaving the post this summer to become president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.	cause_general
A career Army officer, Lute first went to work for Bush as his Iraq and Afghanistan war coordinator and stayed on under Obama, focused specifically on Afghanistan.	cause_general
MEXICO CITY - Guatemalan officials rousted an imprisoned former president Friday and put him on a plane to the U.S. to face long-pending corruption charges.	main
He has been held in prison and in a military hospital, where he was treated for liver and heart ailments.	cause_general
He was flown to the U.S. in an air ambulance.	cause_general
On Friday morning the interior minister authorized his transfer, a decision that the U.S. Embassy called “an important affirmation of the rule of law and due process.”	cause_general
The timing stirred skepticism among analysts, coming as international criticism of the justice system had grown after the erratic course of the Ríos Montt case.	distant_evaluation
Protesters took to the streets of Guatemala City on Friday to denounce the court’s decision to nullify the verdict.	cause_general
Anita J. Isaacs, a professor at Haverford College who studies Guatemala, said the decision to extradite Portillo had to be seen as an attempt to divert attention from the overturning of the Ríos Montt verdict.	distant_evaluation
The extradition of the former president, Alfonso Portillo, who had fought being sent to the U.S. for two years, caught much of Guatemala by surprise and came amid complaints about the country’s willingness to attack impunity among elites.	cause_general
The extradition followed a high court decision this week to annul a genocide verdict against a former dictator, Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, who had been convicted of trying to annihilate an indigenous group during Guatemala’s nearly four-decade civil war, which ended in 1996.	cause_general
On Monday the court found procedural problems in the trial and ruled that part of it must be repeated.	cause_general
Portillo, who was president from 2000 to 2004, faces charges in U.S. court in New York of conspiring to launder about $70 million of his country’s funds through U.S. banks.	cause_specific
As police officers put him on a plane, swarmed by reporters, Portillo said he was being “kidnapped” and predicted that he would be back when the case fell apart.	distant_expectations_consequences
After leaving office, he worked in Mexico as a financial adviser until he was extradited to Guatemala in 2008 to face embezzlement charges.	distant_historical
In 2010, the U.S. filed its own charges against him for what a prosecutor called “converting the office of the Guatemalan presidency into his personal ATM.”	distant_historical
The following year, he was acquitted in the Guatemala case, but the U.S. continued to push for his prosecution.	distant_historical
LONDON - Britain’s security agencies appeared headed for a period of deeply uncomfortable scrutiny after the government said Sunday that it had been aware for more than two years that one of the two men suspected of hacking an off-duty British soldier to death on a London street had ties to al-Qaida.	main
The statement also did not address a claim made on BBC television on Friday night that Adebolajo spoke of rebuffing an attempt by MI5, the British domestic security agency, to recruit him.	cause_general
The claim was made by Ibrahim Hassan, a man who says he has links to Islamic extremist groups.	cause_general
Hassan said Adebolajo had told him that the recruitment attempt was made after he was deported from Kenya.	cause_general
British security officials quoted in the Sunday newspapers said that efforts to recruit Islamic extremists in such circumstances were common.	distant_evaluation
Hassan himself was arrested in the BBC studio immediately after the interview by Scotland Yard counterterrorism detectives, who said that the arrest was not connected to the killing of Rigby.	cause_general
Hassan’s claims and his arrest added to a growing sense that inquiries into Rigby’s death are likely to delve into the murky world of the security agencies and their dealings with Islamic extremists.	distant_expectations_consequences
A Parliamentary panel, the Intelligence and Security Committee, has said it expects to receive a preliminary report from the government on the attack this week.	distant_expectations_consequences
Among the issues that the panel’s leading members have said they want to explore is whether MI5’s desire to penetrate groups with suspected terrorist ties had led to decisions not to prosecute people like Adebolajo under laws that bar Britons from engaging with terrorist organizations overseas.	distant_evaluation
Security officials have said that MI5 viewed Adebolajo as posing a “low risk” of potential terrorism and did think he needed close monitoring.	distant_evaluation
Security officials have also confirmed that Adebolajo, and to a more limited extent Adebowale, had been known to British security officials for several years because they took part in protests in Britain that were organized by extremist groups, some of which involved violent clashes with the police.	cause_general
A Foreign Office spokesman confirmed that the ministry had provided “consular assistance” in Kenya in 2010 to the man, Michael Adebolajo, 28, a British citizen of Nigerian descent.	main
Newspapers in Britain have carried accounts saying that Adebolajo had been heard in mosques and community centers in south London calling for jihadist attacks in Britain.	distant_evaluation
Muslim community groups have condemned the killing of Rigby in unequivocal terms, and say that many British Muslims are deeply apprehensive over a number of incidents of hostile graffiti and invective since his death, despite appeals for calm from Prime Minister David Cameron, the archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev.	distant_evaluation
Justin Welby, and other prominent figures.	distant_evaluation
Tensions may rise further this week, when post-mortem details on Rigby are expected to be made public.	distant_expectations_consequences
The report may shed light on several aspects of the brutal attack that have seized public attention, including whether he was still alive after the car hit him, and whether he was beheaded, as some witnesses say.	distant_expectations_consequences
The police have so far declined to address those questions.	cause_general
He had been arrested by the Kenyan police on suspicion of planning to join al-Shabab, an extremist group in Somalia that Britain has classified as a terrorist organization.	distant_historical
Adebolajo and the other suspect in the London attack - Michael Adebowale, 22, also of Nigerian origin - have been under armed police guard in separate London hospitals since the attack Wednesday.	cause_general
The soldier - Lee Rigby, 25 - was run down by a car on the sidewalk outside an army barracks, then attacked with meat cleavers.	cause_specific
Police officers arriving on the scene shot and wounded the two suspects.	cause_general
The grisly brutality of the attack shocked Britain as few events have since the bombings on the London transit system on July 7, 2005, which killed 52 passengers and the four bombers.	distant_evaluation
Sunday newspaper headlines about the case focused on what the government knew about Adebolajo and Adebowale and why no action was taken that might have prevented Rigby’s death.	cause_general
In a statement on Sunday, the Foreign Office spokesman sought to tamp down the controversy, saying that the office’s role in the events in Kenya in November 2010 was limited to consular assistance to Adebolajo, “as normal for British nationals.” It did not address the Kenyan government’s statements that Adebolajo, using a false name, had been arrested near the Somali border with five Kenyan nationals while carrying al-Shabab literature.	distant_evaluation
Bausch & Lomb, the eye care company, agreed Monday to sell itself to Valeant Pharmaceuticals International of Canada for about $8.7 billion, sidestepping the lengthier process of an initial public offering.	main
“We believe it’s a great move for the company,” J. Michael Pearson, Valeant’s chief executive, said in an interview by phone.	distant_evaluation
“There’s an opportunity for a lot of singles and doubles here.”	distant_evaluation
The takeover also means a tidy payday for Warburg Pincus, which led a $4.5 billion leveraged buyout of Bausch & Lomb in 2007.	distant_expectations_consequences
The firm already benefited from a $772 million special dividend Bausch & Lomb paid out in March, the bulk of which went to its controlling investor group.	cause_general
Through the deal, Warburg Pincus is expected to reap a return of as much as three times its original investment, according to a person briefed on the matter.	distant_expectations_consequences
Warburg Pincus had begun exploring a sale or initial public offering for Bausch & Lomb late last year, and held preliminary talks with a number of potential bidders.	distant_historical
Among them was Valeant, though Pearson said that at the time he and his board could not justify paying the more than $10 billion Warburg Pincus was seeking.	distant_evaluation
Instead, Bausch & Lomb filed for an initial public offering in March.	cause_general
Until last month, Valeant was pursuing a takeover of a different company, the generic drugmaker Actavis, in what would have been a deal worth over $13 billion.	cause_general
When those talks collapsed, Valeant then pivoted to Bausch & Lomb.	cause_specific
Under the terms of the deal, Valeant will pay $4.5 billion to the investor group that owns Bausch & Lomb, led by the private equity firm Warburg Pincus.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pearson said the bulk of the work on Monday’s transaction took place over last week, with much of the initial due diligence having been completed already.	cause_general
Though Valeant’s offer was lower than the valuation Bausch & Lomb would have fetched in an initial offering, it allowed Warburg Pincus to exit its investment quickly.	cause_general
Taking the eye care company public would have meant a more gradual sale over two to three years.	distant_expectations_consequences
The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter, pending regulatory approval.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pearson said that while integrating Bausch & Lomb would take some time, Valeant will continue to pursue what he described as smaller “tuck in” acquisitions.	distant_evaluation
But deal-making will remain a core part of the company’s growth plans.	distant_evaluation
“Our strategy is our strategy,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“Our aspiration is to become the most valuable pharmaceutical company in the world.”	distant_expectations_consequences
It will also spend about $4.2 billion to repay Bausch & Lomb’s debt.	distant_expectations_consequences
The deal continues the flurry of deal-making in the health care industry, as companies seek to buy the growth they are hard-pressed to generate on their own.	distant_evaluation
Announced merger volume in the sector this year is up 14 percent from the period a year earlier, even as takeovers have fallen 8 percent.	cause_general
Valeant, which is based in Laval, Quebec, has made acquisitions a core part of its growth strategy.	distant_evaluation
The Bausch & Lomb deal is the company’s biggest yet, over three times larger than the $2.6 billion purchase of the skin care company Medicis Pharmaceutical last year.	cause_general
Adding Bausch & Lomb, a giant maker of contact lens solution and surgical devices, will significantly bolster Valeant’s offerings in the sector.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bausch & Lomb will absorb its new parent’s existing ophthalmology operations, creating a business that is expected to generate over $3.5 billion in net revenue this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama plans to nominate James B. Comey, a former hedge fund executive and a former senior Justice Department official under President George W. Bush, to replace Robert S. Mueller III as the director of the FBI, according to a person with knowledge of the selection.	main
The FBI director at the time, Louis J. Freeh, had urged Ashcroft to take the case away from federal prosecutors in Washington who had been investigating for five years but had not brought charges.	distant_historical
With a legal deadline looming over them, Comey and a colleague rapidly moved the case forward and within three months indicted 14 men.	distant_historical
Comey, 52, was chosen for the position over the other finalist for the job, Lisa O. Monaco, who has served as the White House’s top counterterrorism adviser since January.	cause_general
Some Democrats had feared that if the president nominated Monaco - who oversaw national security issues at the Justice Department during the attacks in Benghazi, Libya, in September - Republicans would use the confirmation process as a forum for criticism of the administration’s handling of the attack.	cause_specific
As deputy attorney general in the Bush administration, Comey was a critical player in 2004 in the dramatic hospital room episode in which the White House counsel, Alberto Gonzales, and Bush’s chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., tried to persuade Attorney General John Ashcroft - who was ill and disoriented - to reauthorize a warrantless eavesdropping program.	distant_historical
Comey, who was serving as the acting attorney general and had been tipped off that Gonzales and Card were trying to go around him, rushed to Ashcroft’s hospital room to thwart them.	distant_historical
With Comey in the room, Ashcroft refused to reauthorize the program.	distant_historical
After the episode, Bush agreed to make changes in the program, and Comey was widely praised for putting the law over politics.	distant_historical
Comey graduated from the University of Chicago Law School in 1985, then had a meteoric rise at the Justice Department, culminating in his service as the department’s second-ranking official from 2003 to 2005.	distant_historical
While oversee the U.S. attorney’s office in Richmond, Va., Comey was asked in 2001 to take over the government’s foundering investigation of the 1996 terrorist bombing at Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia that killed 19 American service members.	distant_historical
by Steve Bousquet,	error
In today’s Florida, the only elected official who gets to fly is the one who can afford it.	cause_general
Everywhere Scott goes, he does it on his own aircraft at his own expense, and after nearly two-and-a-half years in office, he has decided he needs an upgrade.	cause_general
Scott is selling his eight-passenger Hawker 400XP, made by Raytheon in 2004, for $1.495 million.	cause_general
An ad for the jet on the website controller.com says the jet is in Bonita Springs and notes: ''Price reduction!	cause_general
Sale pending.''	cause_general
Scott’s new chariot is a 2008 Cessna Citation Excel, a 12-passenger twin-engine jet with a dropped aisle that offers enough headroom for Scott to stand tall in the cabin.	cause_general
The Cessna is white with pink trim and the plane’s tail number ends with the letters ''AS,'' which can only stand for first lady Ann Scott (the old plane’s tail number ended with ''RS’').	cause_general
The new plane, like the old one, is registered to a Naples holding company, Columbia Collier Properties, whose signatory on legal documents is Ann Scott.	cause_general
The purchase price of the new plane was not immediately available, and it’s not the kind of information the governor’s office would willingly provide.	distant_evaluation
''The governor wants to travel the state as often as possible to listen to the concerns and ideas of Floridians,'' said Scott’s chief spokeswoman, Melissa Sellers.	distant_evaluation
Times Columnist	error
Scott travels more often than his predecessor and possible future rival, Charlie Crist, who traveled at taxpayers’ expense.	distant_evaluation
In fact, the Republican Party of Florida, as part of a series critically examining Crist’s record, noted that Monday was the fourth anniversary of a Times/Herald story that cited his use of state aircraft to attract publicity at ceremonial bill-signing events while campaigning for the U.S. Senate.	cause_general
''^	error
By paying for all of his flight costs, Scott has saved taxpayers a bundle, but exactly how much is a mystery.	distant_evaluation
The governor’s office says it has no records reflecting the costs to operate and maintain his own plane.	cause_general
Also not known is how much of a tax benefit Scott derives by using his jet for business purposes.	cause_general
Scott doesn’t take a government salary, either.	cause_general
He is paid a penny a month, or 12 cents a year, which the state says is the minimum necessary for him to be registered in the state personnel system.	cause_general
Contact Steve Bousquet at bousquet@tampabay.com or (850) 224-7263.	error
Rick Scott is the first governor in the history of Florida (and likely the last) to travel the state in his own personal jet.	main
He’s a one-man airline.	distant_evaluation
Air Scott.	distant_evaluation
As a candidate in 2010, Scott thought it was extravagant for taxpayers to pay for two state aircraft to transport politicians in the nation’s fourth-largest state.	distant_historical
Elect me, Scott promised, and I’ll get rid of those expensive toys.	distant_historical
He got elected and ditched both planes, which would have been impossible if Scott wasn’t rich enough to travel in style on his own nickel.	distant_historical
Selling the planes grounded other state officials, who must travel by car or fly on the rare scheduled commercial flights out of Tallahassee, which is often impractical.	cause_general
Katherine Seeber, a Wilton woman who was paroled 10 months ago after spending a dozen years in prison for the killing of her step-great-grandmother, was fatally stabbed in Queens, New York City police said.	main
''She was very troubled her whole life.''	distant_evaluation
New York City police could not say what led to Seeber’s death.	cause_general
She was found dead in her 55th Street home in Astoria Tuesday evening.	cause_general
Police said Seeber had only known Sanchez a few months.	distant_evaluation
The New York Daily News reported Sanchez confronted Seeber, 32, about her seeing another man and then stabbed her in the torso and face with a kitchen knife.	cause_specific
Both the Daily News and the New York Post reported Sanchez tried to clean up the scene after killing Seeber.	cause_general
In addition to murder, Sanchez was also charged with criminal possession of a weapon, evidence tampering and resisting arrest.	cause_general
The parole program that oversaw Seeber’s release helped her find housing in Queens.	cause_general
John Cuilla, the recently retired Saratoga County public defender who represented Seeber since 2000, said Seeber planned on moving to Washington to live with her brother.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It’s a tragic ending,'' Cuilla said.	distant_evaluation
Seeber’s boyfriend, Pedro Sanchez, was charged with second-degree murder Wednesday for the killing, said Detective Martin Tinspeechley.	main_consequence
''It appears that she just could not get out of that cycle of domestic violence.''	distant_evaluation
Seeber was raised in Rexburg, Idaho, a predominantly Mormon city of 17,000 on the eastern edge of the state.	distant_historical
There, Cuilla said, Seeber’s parents’ troubled marriage first exposed her to domestic violence.	distant_evaluation
A once-promising student who aspired to a career in the military, Seeber moved to the Capital Region in 1998.	distant_historical
Both prosecutors and Cuilla say Seeber, whose family said she never smoked or drank as a teenager out west, quickly fell in with the wrong crowd.	distant_evaluation
She started dating Jeffrey Hampshire.	distant_historical
The teenage couple spent most of their time partying.	distant_historical
During one binge in February 2000, Seeber and Hampshire went to Witter’s Mordella Road home in Colonie looking for items to steal and pawn for cash for a hotel party.	distant_historical
A struggle ensued.	distant_historical
Witter was strangled with an electrical cord.	distant_historical
It’s the same charge Seeber pleaded guilty to in 2000 for her role in the death of 91-year-old Ruth Witter in a robbery gone awry.	distant_historical
The nonagenarian’s frozen body was found in a snowy ditch in Stillwater, her ankles and feet bound with tape, a gag in her mouth.	distant_historical
Though she was killed in Colonie, the case ended up in Murphy’s hands because the couple crossed into Saratoga County to dispose of the body.	distant_historical
After prosecutors said Seeber unknowingly led detectives to Witter’s body, both Seeber, then 18, and Hampshire, then 19, were charged with murder.	distant_historical
Seeber pleaded guilty.	distant_historical
Hampshire went to trial and was acquitted.	distant_historical
Hampshire, however, was already facing an unrelated burglary charge and would later be arrested for multiple felonies, including helping cover up a fatal hit-and-run crash.	distant_historical
Seeber first unsuccessfully appealed her murder plea in 2004 on the grounds that she was not in the house to commit another crime, a prerequisite for the murder charge.	distant_historical
Then, in 2011, Seeber appealed again when it was found that Gary Veeder, a veteran State Police forensic scientist, had processed some of the evidence in her case.	distant_historical
Veeder committed suicide in 2008 after State Police pressed him about his mishandling of dozens of cases.	distant_historical
Seeber’s conviction was overturned and a new trial was ordered.	distant_historical
Both the attorney who defended Seeber for more than a decade and the prosecutor who sought to put her behind bars said Seeber’s death appears to be the final chapter in a life that all too often centered around abusive relationships.	distant_evaluation
Seeber, however, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and burglary under the rarely used Alford plea, which allows a defendant to maintain his or her innocence but admit that prosecutors likely could have proven criminal charges at trial.	distant_historical
Seeber was sentenced to 141/2 years in prison in May 2012, but was released later that July because of time served.	distant_historical
At her May 2012 sentencing, Seeber repeatedly apologized to Witter’s family and invoked religion, saying her life had been turned around and that she wanted to work with domestic violence victims after living through a lifetime of volatile relationships.	distant_historical
''I offer this to you not as an excuse,'' Seeber told Witter’s relatives at her sentencing.	distant_evaluation
''But as an explanation to all your questions for all these years.''	distant_evaluation
Both Murphy and Cuilla said that Seeber had changed since Witter’s killing.	distant_evaluation
''In 2000, she was a naive little 18-year-old girl who lived through domestic violence her whole life,'' Cuilla said.	distant_evaluation
He said he was dismayed that it appeared she had recently fallen into another abusive relationship with Sanchez.	distant_evaluation
''I thought she was ready to come out and be a productive member of society.''	distant_evaluation
Detectives who questioned Seeber in 2000 described her as unremorseful, cold and tough.	distant_historical
The criminal case against Seeber was one of the lengthiest and most unusual legal sagas Saratoga County has ever seen.	distant_evaluation
Hampshire’s lawyers portrayed Seeber as the mastermind behind Witter’s killing.	distant_historical
In 2005, Hampshire’s then attorney, Cheryl Coleman, described Seeber as ''the single most frightening sociopath I have ever met.''	distant_historical
Murphy noted that not all victims of domestic violence end up as violent offenders themselves.	distant_expectations_consequences
He also said he and Witter’s family still view Seeber as a killer.	distant_evaluation
''Ruth was a very elderly woman who was having her great granddaughter and a friend over for a visit, not to be robbed and killed,'' Murphy said.	distant_evaluation
''(Witter’s family) looked upon her as a cold and calculated person who manipulated her great grandmother to try and steal jewelry and money, and if she had to sacrifice (Witter’s) life to get those things that was how it was going to go.''	distant_evaluation
bfitzgerald(at)timesunion.com - 518-454-5414 - Twitter: (at)BFitzgeraldTU	error
Allegations surfaced that a veteran police investigator who committed suicide had mishandled evidence, a retrial was ordered and the case ultimately ended with a rarely used plea deal.	distant_historical
''It was probably one of the most complex cases we’ve seen, procedurally,'' said Saratoga County District Attorney James A. Murphy III, who took over as district attorney the year before Witter was killed.	distant_evaluation
Murphy said prosecutors in Queens called him about Seeber’s death late Wednesday night.	main_consequence
''It’s sad, especially in her context, but I can’t say I was surprised,'' Murphy said.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
And when a close adviser to Kim visited China last month, Xi bluntly told him that North Korea should resume international negotiations intended to force it to abandon its nuclear arsenal.	distant_evaluation
Xi also appears to have invested heavily in the meetings here with Obama.	distant_evaluation
Xi, who took office in March, told Obama’s departing national security adviser, Tom Donilon, who arranged the meetings, that the relationship between the United States and China had reached a critical juncture and that he wanted to develop “a new type of great power relationship.”	distant_expectations_consequences
China also offered its own gestures in advance of the Sunnylands summit meeting on one of the prickliest issues with the United States: its treatment of human rights.	cause_general
On Friday, only hours before the two leaders met, China granted passports to the mother and brother of Chen Guangcheng, the blind lawyer and activist whose flight from China last year turned into a diplomatic drama between the two countries.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. - President Barack Obama and China’s new president, Xi Jinping, arrived at a famed desert estate here Friday evening for their unusually informal weekend meeting, starting with discussions of security issues that bedevil them, including North Korea’s nuclear threat, on which the United States sees a chance at greater cooperation.	main
On Saturday, officials said, the leaders plan to delve into economic issues, including the United States’ accusation that Beijing has encouraged or at least tolerated cyberattacks on U.S. systems in which business and military secrets were stolen.	distant_expectations_consequences
On a day when the temperature here reached 110 degrees, Obama and Xi, along with their interpreters and closest aides, retreated to the comfort of the sprawling Sunnylands estate in nearby Rancho Mirage, built by the publishing magnate Walter H. Annenberg.	cause_general
On the question of tensions with North Korea, inflamed this year by a series of belligerent statements and actions from its young leader, Kim Jong Un, the administration has welcomed what officials have described as a growing impatience in China - on the part of Xi in particular - with its longstanding ally in Pyongyang.	distant_evaluation
That has raised administration hopes of new cooperation.	distant_evaluation
China voted with the rest of the U.N. Security Council to impose new sanctions on North Korea after it tested a nuclear device in February.	cause_general
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
But the intelligence reports indicate that the Assad government has regained the tactical initiative, drawing on Hezbollah fighters, Syria government militias and its advantage in heavy weaponry.	distant_evaluation
The government’s capture of Qusair, a major town near the border with Lebanon, has enabled Assad’s forces to cut an important rebel supply line.	cause_general
Syrian government helicopters have been flying Hezbollah and Iraqi Shiite fighters so they can join in an anticipated offensive to take control of Aleppo, Syria’s largest city, according to American officials and members of the Syrian opposition.	distant_expectations_consequences
One result of the changed fortunes on the battlefield, according to American officials, is that the credibility of the moderate Syrian opposition, which the United States has been publicly backing, may have been diminished and that extremist factions may gain influence.	distant_expectations_consequences
Secretary of State John Kerry conferred here on Wednesday with the British foreign secretary, William Hague, who told reporters that Assad appeared determined to press the fight with the rebels with the help of Hezbollah and Iran.	distant_expectations_consequences
“What we have been pushing for, all of us involved in this effort, is a political solution that ends the violence, saves Syria, stops the killing and destruction of an entire nation,” Kerry said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“So it’s not a question to me whether or not the opposition can, quote, 'win.'	distant_evaluation
It’s a question of whether or not we can get to this political solution.”	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
WASHINGTON - The forces of President Bashar Assad of Syria have substantially stepped up their air attacks, exploiting a crucial offensive advantage against Syrian rebels, according to American intelligence reports.	main
The reports paint an increasingly dire picture of the war in Syria as top Obama administration officials met Wednesday to review military options to help the rebels reverse their deteriorating position.	distant_evaluation
The Syrian military’s use of warplanes and helicopters has increased.	main
It has carried out at least 500 air to ground attacks against rebels and civilians in May, according to the intelligence reports, which were described by officials who declined to be identified because they were not authorized to discuss them.	cause_general
Several hundred transport flights moved Syrian government troops, allied Hezbollah fighters and supplies around the battlefield last month, the reports said.	cause_general
The Obama administration has long insisted that Assad’s days in power are numbered and that it is only a matter of time before he is toppled.	distant_expectations_consequences
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
According to the Holocaust museum, after the trials ended, and Rosenberg was hanged in 1946, Robert M.W.	distant_historical
Kempner, a Nuremberg prosecutor, received permission from the office of the chief of counsel of war crimes to keep documents “for purposes of writing, lecturing and study.” With that brief approval in hand, Kempner took the diary, along with thousands of other documents, back to his home in Landsdowne, Pa.	distant_historical
After Kempner died in 1993, the Holocaust museum negotiated a deal with his sons to collect his papers, said Henry Mayer, the museum’s senior adviser on archives.	distant_historical
Legal wrangling over the estate delayed the transfer, and when the museum finally picked up the documents in 1999, the diary and other materials were not among them.	distant_historical
Federal agents tracked a batch of missing papers to Herbert Richardson, an academic publisher and former professor in Lewiston, N.Y., and a friend of one of Kempner’s longtime secretaries.	distant_historical
He turned over some documents, but the diary was not among them, Mayer explained.	distant_historical
The museum kept up the search, and it led again to Richardson.	distant_historical
He turned the pages over to federal agents in April, and the museum authenticated them.	cause_specific
Morton declined to comment on the investigation, but he said that when the government’s civil forfeiture process was completed, the diary would be turned over to the museum.	distant_expectations_consequences
There are “fewer and fewer living victims and witnesses to the horror of the Third Reich,” he said, which makes the original documents of that era all the more important.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
Pages from the diary of a chief Hitler aide, Alfred Rosenberg, missing since the conclusion of the Nuremberg trials of Nazi leaders nearly 70 years ago, were briefly displayed Thursday for the first time by the federal investigators who helped recover them.	main
The diary, handwritten on loose-leaf pages with entries dating from 1936 through 1944, is likely to offer new insights into the decision to exterminate the Jews, infighting among top Nazi officials and the plunder of Europe’s art, said scholars at the U.S.	distant_expectations_consequences
Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.	distant_expectations_consequences
It offers a window “into the mind of a dark soul,” said John T. Morton, director of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which investigates lost and stolen cultural property.	distant_evaluation
Although parts of Rosenberg’s diary are in the National Archives, and excerpts have been published in German, most of this first-person account remains unknown.	cause_general
The tangled journey of the diary could itself be the subject of a television mini-series.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
As Maduro lurches from one crisis to the next, the quality he seems to have honed most is delivering mixed messages at top volume.	distant_evaluation
He branded President Barack Obama “the big boss of the devils” and then sent his foreign minister to shake hands with Secretary of State John Kerry and call for warmer relations.	distant_evaluation
He assailed capitalists for causing soaring inflation and rampant product shortages and then sat down with the head of the country’s biggest private company to discuss the economy.	distant_evaluation
“There are lots of mixed signals,” said Elsa Cardozo, a professor of political science at the Central University of Venezuela.	distant_evaluation
“It is clear the government of President Maduro is in a situation that is forcing it to make some changes in direction.	distant_evaluation
What we don’t know is if they are permanent changes or tactical changes.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Afiuni’s release may actually be intended to counter an opposition campaign to take its message abroad, with leaders visiting countries around the world to make the case that Maduro was unfairly declared the winner of a flawed election and that his government is repressive.	distant_expectations_consequences
The opposition routinely points to Afiuni as the most prominent among a group of what it calls political prisoners.	cause_general
Her lawyer, José Amalio Graterol, confirmed reports last year that she was raped while in prison, became pregnant and had an abortion, which led to other health problems.	distant_historical
She was moved to house arrest in Caracas in 2011.	distant_historical
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
Afiuni’s trial began in November and is continuing, although she has not attended it.	cause_general
);	error
During the three and a half years that she was held in prison or under house arrest, Judge Lourdes Afiuni became a symbol of political persecution for many in Venezuela under President Hugo Chávez.	distant_evaluation
On Friday, a court in Caracas, acting at the government’s request, ordered Afiuni to be set free in the latest sign of a shifting political landscape in post-Chávez Venezuela.	main
Afiuni was jailed in December 2009 after issuing a court ruling that infuriated Chávez, who went on television and demanded that she be sentenced to 30 years in prison.	cause_specific
For years Chávez ignored international appeals for her release, including from the American leftist intellectual Noam Chomsky.	cause_general
Chávez, a charismatic socialist, died in March, leaving a bitterly divided country.	distant_historical
His handpicked successor, Nicolás Maduro, was elected by a slim margin in April and since then has confronted political turmoil and serious economic difficulties that have tested his nascent leadership skills.	cause_general
TAMPA	error
But the description of the Hakkens’ overtures to Cuban officials and fears of government intrusion in their boys’ lives provides an early glimpse of their mind-set and legal strategy.	distant_evaluation
Camareno’s remarks to the Tampa Bay Times, made after Joshua and Sharyn Hakken briefly appeared in court Monday, marked the first time the couple’s own account of their motives has emerged.	cause_general
The argument that the Hakkens were attempting to extricate their sons from a tyrannical child welfare system also promises to bring more national attention to the bizarre saga of an American family driven by mistrust of government to seek refuge in the Western Hemisphere’s last communist country.	distant_expectations_consequences
On April 3, according to the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office, Joshua Hakken, 35, kidnapped his children at gunpoint from the home of his mother-in-law, whom he bound with zip-ties.	cause_general
He and Sharyn Hakken, 34, had lost custody of 4-year-old Cole and 2-year-old Chase after a series of incidents in Louisiana.	cause_general
A court later terminated their parental rights.	cause_general
Authorities said Joshua Hakken was arrested on drug charges in a hotel there last year, and was found with a gun talking about taking a ''journey to Armageddon’' in the presence of the boys when he was taken into custody.	distant_historical
The children were placed in foster care following the drug arrest, but Hakken showed up with a gun at their foster home demanding they be returned, according to authorities.	distant_historical
The foster parents called 911 and Hakken fled.	distant_historical
After the Hakkens’ extradition from Cuba, their sons were placed back in the custody of their grandmother, who lives north of Tampa.	cause_general
The Tampa couple accused of kidnapping their sons at gunpoint and absconding on a sailboat across the Gulf of Mexico tried to formally seek asylum from Cuban authorities, asserting the lives of their children were at risk from U.S. government officials, one parent’s lawyer said Monday.	main
Camareno said he and Jorge Chalela, Joshua Hakken’s attorney, are awaiting discovery materials from the Hillsborough State Attorney’s Office and are still in the early stages of reviewing the case.	cause_general
But Camareno already expects to call witnesses from Cuba, and he said the case could involve international law and jurisdictional issues.	distant_expectations_consequences
It is unclear what specific justification the Hakkens might have had for claiming special refugee status.	distant_evaluation
Cuba never signed the United Nations 1951 Refugee Convention, the backbone of international protection for asylum-seekers.	cause_general
The treaty obligates governments to harbor those who fear persecution in their home countries for their political views, race or religion, among other factors.	cause_general
''They weren’t too sure of what type of asylum they were seeking,'' Camareno said, ''but they were seeking asylum.''	distant_evaluation
Times staff writer Alexandra Zayas contributed to this report.	error
Peter Jamison	error
can be reached at pjamison@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3337.	error
Joshua and Sharyn Hakken met with a lawyer in Cuba after arriving there in April, and were initially told they would be safe from U.S. law enforcement while their asylum application was reviewed, said Tampa lawyer Bryant Camareno, who is representing Sharyn Hakken.	cause_general
''They sought counsel, and they actually met with a lawyer in Cuba,'' Camareno said.	cause_general
''They felt that their kids’ lives were in danger from the (U.S.) government.''	distant_evaluation
He said the couple also believed that if Cuba rejected them, they would have time to seek protection at other foreign governments’ embassies in Havana.	distant_expectations_consequences
The couple’s dreams of a safe haven abroad were short-lived.	distant_evaluation
Within days of the Hakkens’ arrival at Hemingway Marina outside Havana, Cuban authorities gave the U.S. permission to apprehend the family and extradite them to Florida.	cause_general
Both parents are jailed as they await trial in Hillsborough Circuit Court on charges including kidnapping and child abuse.	cause_general
EDNOTES: (FOR USE BY NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE CLIENTS)	error
''	distant_evaluation
Coakley’s initial complaint charged that the company used deceptive methods to market health insurance to veterans, especially those from World War II.	cause_specific
It used direct mail and Internet solicitations to make the insurance appear to be a government program, exaggerating benefits, misrepresenting coverage limits, and making false claims about its rates, according to the attorney general’s office.	cause_specific
It also denied coverage based on preexisting conditions, which is illegal in Massachusetts, according to the complaint.	cause_specific
More than 1,000 Massachusetts consumers bought the policies, according to Coakley’s office.	cause_specific
The initial settlement required the company to identify all consumers who had purchased supplemental insurance and refund premiums, minus any insurance claims paid by the insurer.	cause_specific
But many customers have not received their payments, Coakley said.	cause_specific
Coakley’s office went back to court to ensure the company would meet its obligations.	cause_specific
In an amended settlement, the company agreed to pay an additional $750,000 in restitution to consumers, bringing the total to $3.5 million.	cause_general
It also agreed to pay an additional $375,000 in penalties and $375,000 to fund mental health services for veterans, on top of the $1 million in the original settlement.	cause_general
A company alleged to have used deceptive practices to sell supplemental health insurance to veterans and other Massachusetts residents will pay more than $5 million to settle, Attorney General Martha Coakley said Tuesday.	main
That brings the total the insurer has agreed to pay the state as a deterrent to $1.75 million, Coakley’s office said.	main_consequence
Last month, with funds from the original settlement, the attorney general’s office awarded $500,000 in grants to five organizations to provide mental health services to veterans.	main_consequence
The settlement, now totaling $5.25 million, represents an increase of $1.5 million over an earlier agreement reached between Coakley’s office and Life Insurance Company of North America, in July 2012.	cause_general
The increase in restitution to consumers and penalties is a result of the insurer’s failure to meet the conditions of the original settlement, Coakley said.	cause_specific
''LINA’s failures to comply fully with its obligations under the consent judgment are unacceptable,'' Coakley said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
''This amendment will ensure that all Massachusetts consumers entitled to relief under the settlement will receive restitution from this company and will help further our ongoing efforts to ensure access to mental health services to veterans and their families.''	distant_expectations_consequences
In a statement, the insurance company said it believes it complied with the provisions of the initial settlement and will continue to return premiums, as it has been doing, to affected Massachusetts residents.	distant_evaluation
The amended accord, the company said, clarifies both parties’ understanding of the agreement.	distant_evaluation
''While the company agreed to pay a fine to avoid costly and time-consuming litigation,'' the statement added, ''the settlement recognizes LINA’s good-faith belief that it did not represent or market these products as 'health care insurance.'	distant_evaluation
Gyula Horn, a former leader of Hungary who in 1989 ripped a hole in the Iron Curtain, helping to set off months of tumultuous change in which communist governments in Eastern Europe fell one after the other, died Wednesday in Budapest.	main
Elected prime minister as a socialist in 1994, he angered Hungarians by cutting social programs to stanch raging inflation.	distant_historical
Horn’s indelible image was a photograph taken of him and Alois Mock, the Austrian foreign minister, on June 27, 1989, cutting through once-electrified barbed wire on the border between their two countries.	distant_historical
The men seemed to be tearing the Iron Curtain, the daunting symbol of the ideological rivalry and actual physical boundary between communist and non-communist Europe.	distant_evaluation
The truth was that the removal of the fence had begun two months earlier, because it was badly in need of repair.	distant_historical
But the critical meaning of the stunt - which dozens of photographers were invited to document - was that it provoked no reaction in the Soviet Union, although it had tens of thousands of troops stationed in Hungary.	distant_evaluation
Horn said his purpose was to create “an irreversible situation.”	distant_evaluation
Events accelerated.	distant_evaluation
East Germans, who had long gone to Hungary to meet with West German friends and relatives, refused to return home.	distant_historical
The border police turned a blind eye when several hundred slipped across to Austria during a picnic Aug. 19.	distant_historical
Three weeks after the picnic, Horn appeared on Hungarian television and announced that the East Germans were free to cross the border.	distant_historical
He was 80.	cause_general
Two months later, the Berlin Wall was breached and communist dictatorships began to fall.	distant_historical
In 1990, Horn was awarded the Charlemagne Prize - whose winners include Winston Churchill and Vaclav Havel, the former Czech president - for laying “one of the foundation stones for European unity.” The prize is given by the city of Aachen, Germany.	distant_historical
Gyula Horn was born July 5, 1932, in Budapest, the capital.	distant_historical
The third of eight children, he was raised in a working-class district of the city.	distant_historical
After the Gestapo killed his father, he went to work at 11 in manual labor jobs.	distant_historical
In 1950 he was sent to Russia to study accounting at an economics institute in Rostov on Don.	distant_historical
He returned to work in Hungary’s Finance Ministry.	distant_historical
He joined the Foreign Ministry in 1959 and served as a diplomat in Bulgaria and Romania before working his way up to deputy foreign minister in 1985 and foreign minister in 1989.	distant_historical
After Hungarians rebelled against the communist government in 1956, he joined a brigade that helped hunt down and arrest democratic activists.	distant_historical
He never denied taking these actions, but said he had never hurt anybody.	distant_evaluation
The Hungarian government announced the death.	cause_general
Nonetheless, two Hungarian presidents vetoed his nomination for high national awards in 2002 and 2007 because of his actions during and after the uprising.	distant_historical
In the 1970s, Horn worked cautiously to liberalize government controls in Hungary in an experiment that came to be known as “goulash communism.” As even that system collapsed, he was instrumental in transforming the Communist Party into the Hungarian Socialist Party.	distant_historical
He became the party’s chairman in 1990.	distant_historical
He was elected to Parliament the same year and retained his seat until 2010.	distant_historical
In the 1994 election, he led the Socialists to a majority.	distant_historical
But in forming a government he included liberals as a way to reassure Hungarians and foreigners who were concerned that the former Communist Party might regain power.	distant_historical
He stepped down after his party lost in 1998.	distant_historical
Horn is survived by his wife, Anna Kiraly; a daughter, Anna; and a son, Gyula Jr.	cause_general
He had been hospitalized since 2007 with what was reported to be a brain malfunction.	cause_specific
Horn’s life encompassed much of the history of 20th-century Hungary.	distant_evaluation
His father, a communist, was executed by the Nazis occupying Hungary in 1944.	distant_historical
Gyula (pronounced JOO-la) also became a hard-line communist, serving in militia units that hunted down government opponents during their revolt in 1956.	distant_historical
The rebels lynched his brother, also a communist.	distant_historical
As foreign minister, as Moscow’s grip on Eastern Europe slipped, Horn proved nimble as a newly minted, nonideological, pragmatic reformer in helping to lead Hungary away from communism.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
“It’s up to the institutions, to the population, to give a response to these attacks,” Kyenge said in a recent interview in her stately office in central Rome.	distant_evaluation
If discussion alone were the goal, then Kyenge’s appointment would have already succeeded.	distant_evaluation
It has opened a national debate on the tension between the increasingly multicultural nature of Italian society and the undercurrent of racism that is increasingly difficult for Italians to ignore.	main
Experts who track immigration issues say that more subtle and insidious forms of racism are pervasive in Italy as it struggles to come to terms with its rapidly changing demographics.	distant_evaluation
In 2011, immigrants made up 7.5 percent of Italy’s population, more than double the percentage of just a decade before.	distant_historical
That influx has combined with Italy’s long economic crisis in ways that have frequently confused or obfuscated the causes of the malaise, with immigrants serving as easy scapegoats.	distant_evaluation
“Kyenge - the first black person, the first immigrant - became minister in a very difficult, tense moment,” said Ferruccio Pastore, director of the International and European Forum for Migration Research in Turin.	distant_evaluation
“It will be a test of the maturity of the political system, of the civil maturity of Italians.	distant_evaluation
It’s an important test.”	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
ROME - When Cécile Kyenge accepted the post of minister of integration in Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s center-left government, she knew that as Italy’s first black national official she would be breaking new ground.	distant_expectations_consequences
What she may not have expected was the stream of racial slurs that have accompanied her first eight weeks in office.	distant_evaluation
Death threats have been posted on Facebook, and in one case this month, a City Council member in Padua called for Kyenge to be raped so that she could “understand” what victims felt.	cause_general
The councilor, Dolores Valandro, who made the comment in a discussion about a woman said to have been raped by an African man, was subsequently expelled from her party, the anti-immigrant Northern League.	cause_general
The verbal attacks have been worrying enough that Kyenge, 48, who was born in the Democratic Republic of Congo and moved to Italy at 19, now travels with heightened security.	cause_general
She has so far chosen not to respond directly to her detractors but instead has praised the many who have spoken out in her support to underscore the need for Italians to strive for civility.	distant_evaluation
Regulators are taking a closer look at whether high-frequency trading firms might represent a threat to the stability of financial markets.	main
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, an industry-financed regulator, sent letters to 10 high-speed trading firms this week, asking them for more information about their trading programs and the steps they have in place to avert “market disruptions.”	main
The letter comes as regulators around the world are grappling with the role that high-speed trading firms have come to play over the last decade as they have grown to account for a majority of all trading in U.S. stocks.	cause_general
These firms, which use high-speed computers and infrastructure to take advantage of small discrepancies in trading prices, have also taken an increasing role in trading in other markets.	cause_general
The letter sent out this week is focused primarily on the steps the firms take to test their programs, or algorithms, before they begin trading with them, and the preparations they take to deal with unexpected trading problems.	main
Regulators have been focused on these issues since one trading firm, Knight Capital, lost nearly $500 million and nearly went bankrupt after its trading programs went haywire last August.	cause_general
The letter also asks about efforts to monitor market “manipulation.” Earlier this year, FINRA said in an annual report that it was concerned about high-speed trading strategies that are “used for manipulative purposes.”	main
A lawsuit filed by Austin filmmaker Robert Rodriguez and the production company behind his film ''Machete’' accuses The Texas Film Commission of denying agreed-to financial incentives after the agency decided the film was ''inappropriate.''	main
Machete Chop Shop Inc. says in a suit filed Saturday in Travis County that the commission backed out of partially reimbursing the cost of the film after coming under fire for its violence and depiction of Texans.	main
Before the movie was released in September 2010, anti-immigration groups were upset over the film’s trailer, citing its violent imagery and Robert DeNiro’s cartoonish role as a senator who kills illegal immigrants.	distant_historical
According to court documents, the producers’ application for a grant under the Texas Moving Image Industry Incentive Program was approved in May 2009, one month after Gov.	distant_historical
Rick Perry signed the program into law at Rodriguez’s Troublemaker Studios.	distant_historical
At the bill signing, Rod-riguez announced that the bill would allow him to make films in Texas, including ''Machete.''	distant_historical
The complaint states that former commission head Bob Hudgins verified that the script complied with content requirements and also claims he approved the incentive package.	distant_historical
Once filmmakers knew they had additional state funding, they increased their budget, the complaint says, banking on a state contribution of nearly $8 million.	distant_historical
XXX - End of Story<3D>	error
Regulators are using new powers to crack down on a high-speed trading firm that they contend was trying to manipulate the prices of futures contracts.	main
Panther would sell contracts at that higher price before quickly canceling its buy orders, the commission said.	distant_evaluation
Panther used the strategy in 18 types of futures contracts, including those involving oil, natural gas and corn.	distant_historical
“We will use the Dodd-Frank anti-disruptive practices provision against schemes like this one to protect market participants and promote market integrity, particularly in the growing world of electronic trading platforms,” the agency’s enforcement director, David Meister, said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bart Chilton, a commissioner with the agency who has been critical of high-speed trading, called the one-year trading ban inadequate.	distant_evaluation
Chilton said in a concurring statement that the violation “warrants the imposition of a much more significant trading ban to protect markets and consumers, and to act as a sufficient deterrent to other would-be wrongdoers.”	distant_evaluation
A person who answered the phone at Panther said the firm and Coscia had no comment on the case.	cause_general
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said Monday that it had set penalties of $2.8 million on Panther Energy Trading for a practice known as “spoofing,” in which bogus orders are used to draw in other traders.	cause_specific
The firm and its owner, Michael J. Coscia, were also barred from trading for a year.	main_consequence
The agency said it was the first case to be brought using new rules against spoofing contained in the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation.	cause_general
In addition, British regulators imposed their own fine of $903,176 on Coscia, while the Chicago Mercantile Exchange set a penalty of $2.1 million on Panther Energy and Coscia, who was also banned from trading on its exchanges for six months.	cause_specific
A number of regulatory agencies have stepped up their scrutiny of high-speed trading firms, which are coming to dominate a growing number of financial markets.	cause_general
On Friday, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority sent letters to 10 firms asking for information about their systems and controls.	cause_general
Panther Energy Trading, based in Red Bank, N.J., engaged in the problematic practices for two months in 2011 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s electronic trading platform, according to the order filed by the futures commission.	distant_historical
The order said the firm and Coscia used computer programs to place orders to buy futures contracts, hoping to give other traders the impression that the price of a contract was heading higher.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK - Fed up with what he views as a pattern of obstructionist behavior, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has taken the rare step of filing a lawsuit against the city comptroller, John C. Liu, for rejecting two municipal contracts.	main
“It’s a joke,” Marc La Vorgna, Bloomberg’s press secretary, said of Liu.	distant_evaluation
“Sad part is this is taxpayer resources and dollars being completely wasted on naked political ambitions.	distant_evaluation
He was running for mayor the second he stepped into this job and had no interest in doing the job he was sworn in to do, only to abuse the position.”	distant_evaluation
Aides to Liu argue that the comptroller needs to highlight certain Bloomberg proposals because the mayor has mishandled contracts, like those for the CityTime payroll project and for an overhaul of the 911 system.	distant_evaluation
“Under Mayor Bloomberg, spending on outside contractors has ballooned, and his outsourcing philosophy is out of control,” said Stephanie Hoo, a spokeswoman for the comptroller.	distant_evaluation
“In all cases, whenever this office has questioned contracts, it has been within the guidelines of the City Charter and our mandate to protect taxpayers from wasteful spending.”	distant_evaluation
In the rare cases where a mayor or a comptroller sues the other over contracts, the courts have held that comptrollers have extremely limited powers.	cause_general
In 2006, the Court of Appeals rejected former Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr.'s effort to void a contract on Snapple, writing that “the Charter establishes in plain language that the mayor and the corporation counsel - not the comptroller - bear the burden of determining that procedural requirements have been met and legal authority exists to award a concession contract.” (Thompson ran against Bloomberg in 2009 and is again seeking the Democratic nomination for mayor.)	distant_historical
Under the charter, the only basis for a comptroller to scuttle a contract is evidence of possible corruption in the contracting process.	cause_general
In rejecting the shelter contracts, Liu mentioned not corruption, but concerns over inspections and certificates of occupancy.	cause_general
The contracts would pay Aguila Inc., a company run by Robert V. Hess, Bloomberg’s former commissioner of homeless services, a total of $67.6 million to operate homeless shelters in the Bronx and Manhattan.	cause_general
Bloomberg administration officials cited more than a half-dozen instances in recent years in which Liu publicized a rejection of a contract, then quietly registered it.	cause_general
In March 2011, for example, Liu rejected a $20 million deal on teacher recruitment, saying the timing was “curious at best” because of Bloomberg’s threat to fire teachers.	distant_historical
But the reasons for rejecting the contract pertained to data input and an incomplete insurance certificate.	distant_historical
Liu registered the contract that July, with minimal changes.	distant_historical
When asked about the discrepancies between press statements and public documents, Hoo did not directly address the issue, but rather alluded to the mayor’s maneuver to run for a third term in 2009.	distant_evaluation
“It is beyond ironic that Mayor Bloomberg’s Law Department is up in arms about adherence to the City Charter when no one in the history of New York City has shown such deep disrespect for the City Charter,” she said.	distant_evaluation
“If we’d followed the charter, he wouldn’t even be in office right now.”	distant_evaluation
The Manhattan shelters have long been a target of criticism from local residents and elected officials, who say, among other complaints, that the area has an excess of similar facilities.	distant_evaluation
Liu rejected the contracts on July 3, saying they were too vague as to how many people would be offered services.	cause_specific
And in a criticism of Bloomberg’s record on homelessness, Liu argued that “it would be unconscionable to compound past errors with these faulty contracts.”	distant_evaluation
But Bloomberg, in a lawsuit filed Thursday in state Supreme Court in Manhattan, said the courts had long held that registration of contracts was “not a vehicle for the comptroller to usurp the mayor’s authority to enter into contracts.”	main
The lawsuit, believed to be only the second filed by the Bloomberg administration against the city or state comptroller’s office, is the latest and perhaps most pronounced skirmish between Bloomberg and Liu, a Democrat who is now running for mayor.	distant_evaluation
Administration officials contend that there is a discrepancy between the reasons Liu cites in his news releases for rejecting a contract and the public documents explaining the reasons.	distant_evaluation
Liu, the city contends, typically asks for more technical information, then registers those contracts with few if any changes and no public notification.	distant_evaluation
ST. PETERSBURG — Stacia Kay Berman was the teenage girl who never minded playing Parcheesi and Monopoly with a brother and sister who were a decade younger.	distant_evaluation
''And through the whole descent into this vicious criminal world, it was very difficult, and I never gave up on her because my Stacia was still inside the new Stacia.	distant_evaluation
''But never, never in my imagination did I imagine how it would end.''	distant_evaluation
Berman grew up in the Miami area.	distant_historical
She enjoyed English classes and did well in school.	distant_historical
But in sixth grade she suffered a serious head injury in a bicycle accident and afterward had headaches and trouble concentrating.	distant_historical
Berman’s mother and father divorced, her father remarried, and eventually Berman gained a younger brother and sister.	distant_historical
''She was a wonderful older sister, played with them in a pool, sang to them, made up games,'' said her stepmother Kelly Charters.	distant_evaluation
Berman attended Coral Gables High School and got a GED.	distant_historical
She worked in nightclubs in South Beach, but her mother worried about that scene.	distant_historical
She knew her daughter had dabbled in drugs.	distant_evaluation
She was a lover of words and books, a poet who penned thoughtful lines about being in a room with a view of a sea that looks like forever.	distant_evaluation
A successful South Florida real estate broker, Silverthorne helped her daughter study for her real estate license.	distant_historical
She beamed when Berman moved to New York City in the 1990s and became a real estate broker.	distant_historical
''That was like her Camelot time for six or seven years,'' Silverthorne said.	distant_evaluation
Berman cared deeply for animals, for the environment, for people affected by war, for many things.	distant_evaluation
She suffered ''not just her own wounds, but everyone else’s wounds,'' as Silverthorne put it.	distant_evaluation
Sometimes, it was hard for her to stop worrying.	distant_evaluation
''I think some of these things would keep her up at night,'' Charters said.	distant_evaluation
Then, in 2001, two planes crashed into the World Trade Center.	distant_historical
''It just put her over,'' Charters said.	distant_evaluation
That week, a Washington Post reporter found Berman attending services at New York’s St. Patrick’s Cathedral.	distant_anecdotal
She was a bright and vivacious young women who made it as a real estate agent in South Florida and then became a broker in New York City.	distant_evaluation
She seemed almost a church statue in full regalia.	distant_anecdotal
She wore an American flag bandanna in her hair, a flag pin on her black trench coat, a cross around her neck.	distant_anecdotal
She began to talk about the unspeakable tragedy, and could not stop.	distant_anecdotal
She shuddered, her teeth chattering.	distant_anecdotal
Her brown eyes were red.	distant_anecdotal
''It always takes something like this for us to pay attention to humanity, to politics, to religion,'' she said.	distant_anecdotal
''People I know could’ve died, and I may just not know it yet.''	distant_anecdotal
Berman was not only suffering from depression brought on by the attacks but also a collapsing real estate market.	distant_evaluation
Silverthorne brought her back to Florida and put her to work in her business.	distant_historical
Berman’s good friend Pelli Llewellyn discovered Berman was using crack cocaine, a change from previous casual partying.	distant_historical
To friends and family, Berman was more than a murder victim, more than a drug addict whose tortured body was found in St. Petersburg’s Lake Maggiore.	distant_evaluation
It scared Llewellyn.	distant_evaluation
After some soul-searching, she alerted Berman’s mother.	distant_historical
Silverthorne got her into rehab more than once, including a stint in St. Petersburg.	distant_historical
But Berman kept using and began getting arrested.	distant_historical
At one point, she confided what her mother had suspected: She turned to prostitution for more cocaine.	distant_historical
''It was a brutal thing to watch this middle-class child descend into this hard-core drug world,'' Silverthorne said.	distant_evaluation
And harder still when police told her what had happened in St. Petersburg on Christmas Eve 2011: Berman came to an apartment at 527 Eighth St. N for cocaine.	distant_evaluation
Smith thought she had stolen some shoes.	distant_evaluation
Smith, McKnight and another man were accused of torturing her, killing her and dropping her in Lake Maggiore.	cause_general
Silverthorne appreciates the prosecutors who got McKnight and Smith convicted and sentenced to life, but she doubts parts of the official story.	distant_evaluation
She was those things, too, as became clear in a trial in June.	cause_general
She believes the murder was about more than shoes and that more people were involved.	distant_evaluation
She said her daughter had previously been found with a couple of $1,000 Walmart gift cards, indicating she may have been used as a drug courier.	distant_evaluation
''It wasn’t about shoes,'' Silverthorne said.	distant_evaluation
''It was about money.''	distant_evaluation
The convictions were welcomed by those who loved Berman.	cause_general
Still, says Charters: ''I don’t think more than 12 hours can go by without my thinking of her and what they did to her.''	distant_evaluation
Letrell McKnight and Santonio Smith were convicted of murdering Berman, 42, purportedly because Smith believed she had stolen shoes he planned to give his kids for Christmas.	main
A third man is awaiting trial.	cause_general
But for people who knew Berman, the descriptions of her death ignore who she was for most of her life.	distant_evaluation
''My daughter was bright, she was generous, she was loving, she was fun, she was so much fun,'' said her mother Andrea Silverthorne.	distant_evaluation
EDNOTES: (FOR USE BY NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE CLIENTS)	error
Last fall, Essex County prosecutors contested motions to stay sentences in more than 50 cases involving allegedly tainted drug evidence, contending that the judge lacked the authority to stay sentences in the absence of a pending appeal.	distant_historical
The court disagreed, saying ''the interest of justice is not served by the continued imprisonment of a defendant who may be entitled to a new trial.''	main
''The magnitude of the allegations of serious and far-reaching misconduct by Dookhan at the Hinton drug lab cannot be overstated,'' the ruling stated.	main
''The alleged misconduct may have compromised thousands of Âcases.''	main
Dookhan faces a host of criminal charges related to misÂhandling or falsifying drug evidence.	cause_specific
She has pleaded not guilty.	cause_specific
Matthew Segal, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, said the decision marked a ''complete Ârejection’' of prosecutors’ attempt to challenge the system set up to handle the Dookhan cases.	distant_evaluation
''It said the exact procedure being used is fine,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
The court went a step further, Segal said, in indicating that Dookhan’s involvement in cases may be enough to warrant a new trial.	distant_evaluation
''My hope is that courts will look at this opinion and see reasons for granting new trials,'' he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
scandal	error
''You can’t rest a conviction on fraud.''	distant_evaluation
Jonathan W. Blodgett, the ÂEssex district attorney, said the decision clarified legal and procedural questions around the special drug lab sessions, reducing the chances of further litigation.	distant_evaluation
''Our overriding concern was the possibility of relitigating Dookhan drug lab cases for a third time,'' he said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
''This would have stretched the already limited Âresources of all the district attorney’s offices.''	distant_evaluation
Michael O’Keefe, district Âattorney for the Cape and ÂIslands, said the decision would help prosecutors handle the host of legal challenges arising from the scandal, which officials have estimated could affect well over 100,000 cases.	distant_expectations_consequences
''As district attorneys, our goal is to expedite the cases as quickly as possible,'' said O’Keefe, president of the state association of district attorneys.	distant_evaluation
''In that Âregard, it’s helpful to know what the rules are.''	distant_evaluation
In a separate section of the ruling, the court said that special magistrates who were appointed by the Superior Court to preside over the drug lab sessions are not authorized to stay a sentence.	cause_general
But the magistrates, who by March had conducted more than 900 hearings on Dookhan-related cases, can make ''conclusions of law’' for judges to review, as they have been doing.	cause_general
The court also ruled that magistrates cannot overrule a Superior Court judge’s decision to stay a sentence.	cause_general
system	error
Anne Goldbach, forensic services director in the state public defender’s office, said the decision upholds the status quo.	distant_evaluation
''It says that the process set up to handle these cases is a valid one,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
The court’s decision focused on a case involving a Lynn man, Shubar Charles, who in 2010 pleaded guilty to cocaine possession with intent to distribute.	cause_general
He was sentenced to four to seven years in state prison.	distant_historical
Last December, he filed a Âmotion to stay the execution of his sentence, noting that Dookhan was the primary chemist on the case.	distant_historical
The motion was granted, and prosecutors Âappealed.	distant_historical
A second case involved ÂHector Milette, who in 2011 pleaded guilty to cocaine trafficking.	cause_general
In November, a judge Âdenied his motion for a stayed sentence, but a special magistrate overturned the decision in February.	distant_historical
Prosecutors appealed, and he was sent back into custody.	distant_historical
He later pleaded guilty, admitting the substance was cocaine despite Dookhan’s involvement, prosecutors said.	distant_historical
upheld © 2013 The New York Times	error
The state’s highest court has ruled that judges have the authorÂity to stay the sentences of so-called Dookhan defendants who are seeking new trials, upholding the legal framework created to review hundreds of cases tied to the state drug lab scandal.	main
In a decision issued Monday, the Supreme Judicial Court ruled that the ''exceptional circumstances’' surrounding convictions tied to Annie Dookhan, the former state chemist who allegedly falsified suspected drug samples, gave Superior Court judges the power to free defendants who are challenging their convictions.	main
''The allegations of misÂconduct at the Hinton drug lab have given rise to serious concerns about defendants who may be incarcerated as a consequence of tainted convictions,'' the ruling stated.	main
''Thus, a defendant’s motion to stay the execution of his sentence should be decided in an expeditious manner.''	main
While largely procedural, the decision highlighted the swirl of legal questions surrounding Dookhan-related cases, which have flooded the judicial system and led to the release of hundreds of defendants, more than 300 from state prisons and more from county facilities.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
The city has been expected to seek reductions in pensions in bankruptcy court as part of its broader efforts to reduce Detroit’s estimated $18 billion in debts and other obligations.	distant_expectations_consequences
Aquilina’s ruling was appealed by the state attorney general to the Michigan Court of Appeals, which on Tuesday issued a stay of her order pending their appellate decision.	cause_specific
But on Wednesday, in the first hearing on the Chapter 9 case, Rhodes approved a motion by the city’s emergency financial manager, Kevyn D. Orr, to freeze all litigation against the city during the bankruptcy process.	main
The move effectively gives Rhodes the authority to rule on the issues raised by retired public employees regarding their pensions.	main_consequence
Rhodes also granted a second motion by the emergency manager that extends protection from litigation to Gov.	main_consequence
Rick Snyder of Michigan and other state officials.	main_consequence
Last week, Snyder accepted the city’s emergency manager’s recommendation and ordered Detroit to file for Chapter 9.	cause_specific
Both Snyder and Orr have said that a bankruptcy filing was the only option to settle Detroit’s crushing debt.	distant_evaluation
As the case began, protesters gathered outside the federal courthouse downtown.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
DETROIT - A federal bankruptcy judge on Wednesday cleared the way for Detroit’s bankruptcy case to go forward without legal challenges.	main
The decision by Judge Steven Rhodes of U.S. Bankruptcy Court freezes all litigation against the city during the bankruptcy process and consolidates state-level legal challenges to Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing into the federal bankruptcy case.	main
The federal bankruptcy court has “exclusive jurisdiction” over the case, he said, adding, “There is no case law that holds otherwise.”	distant_evaluation
It was a dramatic beginning to the largest municipal bankruptcy case in American history.	distant_evaluation
The judge was attempting to put to rest a legal spat that began almost immediately after Detroit filed for bankruptcy last Thursday, the largest American city ever to do so.	distant_evaluation
On Friday a state judge, Judge Rosemarie Aquilina of Ingham County Circuit Court, ruled that the filing violated the state constitution, which protects the pensions of retired public employees.	cause_specific
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
But some experts said her lack of knowledge was outweighed by her connections to the Oval Office.	distant_evaluation
She shares that with other marquee figures who have been ambassadors to Tokyo, including former Vice President Walter F. Mondale; Howard Baker, a former senator and White House chief of staff; and Thomas S. Foley, a former speaker of the House.	distant_evaluation
“For those who say she doesn’t know a lot about Japan, I say 'sure,' but neither did Walter Mondale,” said Kurt M. Campbell, a Japan expert who was assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs.	distant_evaluation
“What you really want in an ambassador is someone who can get the president of the United States on the phone.”	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama on Wednesday nominated Caroline Kennedy to be ambassador to Japan, moving to give a scion of America’s most enduring political dynasty a diplomatic post that has often gone to political heavyweights.	main
In naming Kennedy, whose appointment had been rumored for months, Obama is keeping with a long tradition of rewarding important campaign supporters with plum embassies.	distant_evaluation
He recently nominated major fundraisers to be envoys in London and Berlin.	cause_general
But Kennedy’s value to Obama has been less about money than mystique.	distant_evaluation
As the daughter of President John F. Kennedy, her imprimatur on his candidacy in 2008 - along with that of her uncle Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts - elevated him at a key moment against his better-known rival, Hillary Rodham Clinton.	distant_historical
Kennedy, 55, a lawyer, author and director of numerous nonprofit organizations, has no special expertise in Japan.	distant_evaluation
EDS: ADDS how Brahmi died to fifth graf; ADDS graf to end, beginning “The top human rights ...”); (This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
I don’t think that any political party would want this.”	distant_evaluation
TAP, Tunisia’s official news agency, said the victim was Mohamed Brahmi.	main
Brahmi, 58, leader of the Arab nationalist People’s Party, was felled by several bullets outside his residence in Ariana, a suburb of Tunis.	main
Other local Tunisian media said a pair of gunmen had shot Brahmi at least 11 times as he sat in a car with his daughter and that the killers escaped on a moped.	main
At a hospital where Brahmi’s body was taken, dozens of protesters gathered to denounce Ennahda.	main_consequence
“Ghannouchi is an assassin!” said a woman draped in a Tunisian flag.	distant_anecdotal
Others shouted: “The Islamists are vampires!”	distant_anecdotal
Noomen Toumi, one of the protesters at the hospital, said he believed Islamist extremists might have been behind the assassination of Brahmi.	distant_anecdotal
“It has to be someone who is against democracy,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
The assassination, which coincided with celebrations for the 56th anniversary of Tunisian statehood after independence from France, came as Tunisia was still grappling with a democratic transition following the January 2011 revolution that toppled the country’s autocratic leader, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, and forced him into exile.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
The Tunisian revolution was the catalyst that spawned similar uprisings in Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Syria.	distant_historical
The top human rights official at the United Nations, Navi Pillay, expressed shock at the killing of Brahmi and urged “the authorities to immediately launch a prompt and transparent investigation to ensure that the people who carried out this crime are held accountable.”	distant_evaluation
);	error
TUNIS, Tunisia - Tunisia, birthplace of the Arab Spring revolutionary movement, was plunged into a new political crisis Thursday when assassins shot an opposition party leader outside his home in a hail of gunfire.	main
It was the second political assassination in Tunisia since February, and quickly incited protests blaming Ennahda, the moderate Islamist party that leads the government.	main_consequence
Crowds of protesters gathered outside the offices of the Interior Ministry in Tunis, the capital, calling on Ennahda to relinquish power, and security forces were deployed to contain them.	main_consequence
The Associated Press reported that protests erupted in other cities, including Sidi Bouzid, the impoverished town where the Tunisian revolution began, and in the nearby town of Meknassi, where angry demonstrators burned down the local Ennahda headquarters.	main_consequence
Ennahda issued a statement calling the assassination “cowardly and despicable.” The leader of Ennahda, Rachid al-Ghannouchi, said on Tunisian radio: “This is a crime against the democratic transition of Tunisia.	distant_evaluation
The classic question is: Who is behind this?	distant_evaluation
Mortgage Investors Corp., the beleaguered home lender run by prominent civic activist Bill Edwards, is laying off about 325 employees at its St. Petersburg headquarters, roughly a third of its workforce.	main
A layoff notice filed with the state Wednesday indicated that about 380 workers at Mortgage Investors headquarters at 6090 Central Ave. would lose their jobs this week.	main
Edwards said he over-calculated in the filing and the layoff count will be closer to 325, leaving the company with about 600 employees.	main
Most of the affected employees worked in the call center or as loan processors.	cause_general
They will continue to receive full pay and benefits for 60 days.	cause_general
The news comes less than a month after the Federal Trade Commission levied a civil penalty of $7.5 million on the home lender, the largest fine ever for a violation of the Do Not Call rule.	cause_specific
Mortgage Investors called more than 5.4 million phone numbers on the National Do Not Call Registry to pitch home loan refinancing services to current and former members of the U.S. military, according to the FTC.	cause_specific
In initial findings, the FTC said telemarketers led service members to believe they could receive low-interest, fixed-rate mortgages at no cost, ''often quoting rates that they implied would last the duration of their loan.''	cause_specific
In reality, regulators said, the company offered only adjustable rate mortgages that left customers liable for higher payments with rising interest rates.	cause_specific
It also required customers to pay closing costs.	cause_specific
On Wednesday, Edwards said the company cooperated with the FTC, but he called the charges unfounded, alleging that the FTC ''wanted to use me as a poster child’' to mark the 10th anniversary of the Do Not Call registry.	distant_evaluation
''We had to pull in our wings, (but) my plans are to stay in business,'' Edwards said in an interview Wednesday.	distant_evaluation
Mortgage Investors disputed in particular any allegations that it has deceived veterans about mortgage terms, he said.	distant_evaluation
He also insisted that scores of online complaints about Mortgage Investors are not from ''real’' customers, dismissing them as anonymous online postings.	distant_evaluation
''As far as misleading someone on a loan, I’ve never had one complaint,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''I don’t have any real complaints from real customers sitting in my files.''	distant_evaluation
The Times has talked to several homeowners who complained about deceptive and pressurizing tactics by Mortgage Investors.	cause_general
Among them: Don LaBarge, 73, of Brooksville, who said he agreed to refinance at a 2.5 percent rate with Mortgage Investors after being told the rate would be fixed for years.	distant_anecdotal
''Eight months after we were making payments, I got a bill from them,'' he said.	distant_anecdotal
''Our house payment was going up $39.	distant_anecdotal
One full percent.''	distant_anecdotal
Edwards remained adamant that no complaints made their way to him.	cause_general
The company has been hammered with complaints for misleading customers and calling millions of people on the federal Do Not Call list.	cause_specific
''I can honestly say to you I’ve had no complaints from anyone who has gotten a loan from Mortgage Investors in almost 20 years.	distant_evaluation
That’s all I can tell you,'' he reiterated.	distant_evaluation
Asked about specific local cases such as LaBarge’s, he said: ''I haven’t heard from those people, but send them my way.	distant_evaluation
I’d certainly be happy to chat with them.''	distant_evaluation
Founded in 1938, Mortgage Investors has grown into one of the country’s biggest refinancers of veterans’ home loans.	cause_general
Beyond running the mortgage firm, Edwards also runs a music production company.	cause_general
He also runs the city-owned Mahaffey Theater and bought downtown St. Petersburg’s BayWalk complex with plans to revitalize it as the renamed Shops at St. Pete.	cause_general
Earlier this year, Edwards said he planned to retire and arranged a sale of the mortgage firm to Tampa-based HomeBancorp.	distant_historical
But the deal fell apart.	distant_historical
Today he’s focusing on staying in business.	cause_general
But Edwards, 68, flatly rejected allegations of unsatisfied customers, blaming his woes solely on an industry-wide drop in mortgage refinancings amid higher interest rates.	distant_evaluation
''I had run this company for 20 years, and I took a couple of years off to do something fun,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''So I’m back doing it now and paying attention to what’s going on.''	distant_evaluation
Jeff Harrington can be reached at jharrington@tampabay.com or (727) 893-8242.	error
It’s the same issue, he said, that has triggered layoffs for top lenders including JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America.	distant_evaluation
''My problem is there is no liquidity in the bond markets and without bonds, we can’t provide mortgages,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''You just can’t create mortgage-backed securities.	distant_evaluation
.?.?.	distant_evaluation
I haven’t seen this in 20 years where there are all sellers and no buyers of bonds, but it is what it is.''	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
“He’s proven that he’s not going to change,” Andrews said of Wilson.	distant_evaluation
Andrews said that he wanted to watch Wilson’s execution, and when asked why, he replied, “For satisfaction.”	distant_evaluation
The family of Detective James V. Nemorin, the other victim, did not attend court Wednesday.	cause_general
In a statement, the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said: “It was an assault on the society that those officers represented, and for that reason their murders had to be answered with the full force of punishment at society’s disposal.”	distant_evaluation
Wilson’s lawyers declined to comment.	cause_general
Death penalty trials are exceedingly rare in New York, where the state’s highest court struck down the death penalty in 2004 and where capital cases at the federal level are often resolved before trial.	distant_evaluation
On March 10, 2003, Wilson killed Andrews, 34, and Nemorin, 36, who were participating in a sting operation to buy an illegal gun.	distant_historical
He shot each once in the back of the head at point-blank range on a secluded street on Staten Island.	distant_historical
Federal prosecutors vigorously sought the death penalty against Wilson, taking the case from state prosecutors when capital punishment at the state level was invalidated.	distant_historical
They won a death verdict in 2007, the first one in New York since 1953.	distant_historical
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
The 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals overturned his death sentence in 2010.	distant_historical
The panel commuted the sentence to life in prison without parole, but prosecutors decided to again seek death.	cause_specific
);	error
NEW YORK - Ronell Wilson, whose first death sentence for killing two undercover police detectives was overturned, was sentenced again Wednesday to die by a federal jury that heard gripping testimony about his time in jail, where he roamed freely after the shootings, intimidated fellow inmates and fathered a child with a guard.	main
The anonymous jury took just five hours to reach its decision to return Wilson to federal death row, where no other New Yorker has served time in six decades.	cause_general
As the jury foreman responded to preliminary questions, Wilson, 31, slumped forward with his chin in his hands as the tension rose in the courtroom in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn.	cause_general
When the foreman finally said “yes” to the death penalty, Wilson looked over to his family.	cause_general
They wept as he was led away.	cause_general
Rodney Andrews Sr., the father of one of the victims, Detective Rodney J. Andrews, said that he was pleased with the outcome.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
If his assertions are confirmed, the killings would rank among the worst mass executions carried out by the rebel side and could aggravate the image problems for the coalition of insurgent forces, which are riven by internal conflict and have been losing territory to Assad’s side in recent weeks.	distant_expectations_consequences
At the United Nations on Friday, a delegation of Syrian opposition leaders met informally with Security Council members for the first time, to press their contention that Assad has no interest in negotiating a peace deal as long as he believes he is winning on the battlefield.	distant_evaluation
Delegation members told reporters they had asked Russia, the Syrian government’s most powerful foreign backer, to stop supplying weapons to Assad.	distant_evaluation
The delegation, led by the coalition’s newly elected president, Ahmed al-Jarba, met the day before with Secretary of State John Kerry during his visit to the United Nations and beseeched him to expedite U.S. military aid to opposition fighters.	distant_evaluation
Al-Jarba has publicly rejected any alliance with the jihadists who have joined the insurgency and has repeatedly stressed what he has called the coalition’s commitment to a pluralistic democracy in Syria should the opposition prevail.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
BEIRUT - Islamist extremists in Syria’s insurgency killed 150 soldiers in a battle for control of an Aleppo suburb this week, including 51 who were executed after they had surrendered, according to a Syrian monitoring group that has been chronicling casualties and evidence of atrocities.	main
The group, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which sympathizes with the opposition and reports daily tallies of combat and violence from a network of contacts on the ground in Syria, corroborated its assertion Friday with a video posted on the Internet.	main
The video, dated Wednesday, showed what appeared to be an execution ground, with dozens of lifeless bodies clumped against a wall pockmarked with bullet holes.	main
The video’s authenticity could not be independently confirmed, but Rami Abdulrahman, the Syrian Observatory founder, quoted witnesses as saying 51 soldiers taken prisoner were later shot.	main
Among the total who had surrendered, he said, “very few were taken hostage.”	distant_evaluation
Abdulrahman said the killers were members of the Nusra Front and Ansar al-Khalafa al-Islamiya Brigade, among the many jihadist groups, some affiliated with al-Qaida and populated with foreign fighters, that have entered Syria to join the insurgency battling the forces of President Bashar Assad in the conflict, now in its third year.	cause_general
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
After years of a splintered opposition, the election signaled the arrival, permanent or not, of a de facto two-party system in Cambodia.	main_consequence
The two largest opposition parties merged last year to form the Cambodia National Rescue Party.	distant_historical
The opposition challenged the governing party, the Cambodian People’s Party, with a strikingly populist platform calling for a sharp rise in civil servants’ salaries, monthly payments to those more than 65 years old, and an increase in the minimum wage.	cause_general
It also included a guaranteed, government-set price for agriculture products, lower gasoline costs and free health care for the poor.	cause_general
Hun Sen’s party, as well as many analysts, questioned whether the opposition would be able to pay for all the proposed measures.	distant_evaluation
But in a country with wide income disparities, where 40 percent of children under 5 years old are malnourished and where more than two-thirds of households lack a flush toilet, the opposition’s program resonated.	cause_general
The opposition also highlighted corruption, land seizures and concessions of wide swaths of forest given to foreign companies, especially from China and Vietnam.	cause_general
Election monitoring groups reported numerous problems with the election.	cause_general
Supposedly indelible ink to prevent people from casting votes more than once, for example, was easily removed with lime juice or bleach, observers said.	distant_evaluation
And scores of voters were turned away because their names were not found on the list, causing minor scuffles at one Phnom Penh voting station.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia - After years of near total dominance in Cambodian politics, the party of Prime Minister Hun Sen won a relatively narrow victory in national elections Sunday as a resurgent opposition rode a wave of disenchantment with the prime minister’s 28 years in power.	main
Khieu Kanharith, the Cambodian information minister, told news services that according to a preliminary count, the governing party won 68 seats, or about 55 percent of the National Assembly’s 123 seats.	main
In the assembly being replaced, the governing party controlled a commanding 90 seats.	cause_general
“This is a historical day, a great day for Cambodia,” Sam Rainsy, an opposition leader who returned from exile in France nine days before the election, told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
“People came in great numbers to express their will and democracy seemed to move forward.”	distant_evaluation
The opposition won 55 seats, or about 45 percent of seats in the assembly, which will make it harder for Hun Sen to impose his will.	distant_expectations_consequences
NEW YORK - An administrator at a Manhattan high school admitted to having sex with four female students, according to a report by the New York City Department of Investigation.	main
Attempts on Tuesday evening to reach Taylor, Choi and Solomon by phone and email were unsuccessful.	cause_general
On Tuesday, the city’s Education Department said that Taylor’s actions were “completely reprehensible” and that he had been barred from teaching in the city.	distant_evaluation
Taylor worked at the school for about a year, and his salary was $32,000.	cause_general
One relationship started when a student came to Taylor to discuss personal problems, the report said.	main
It stated that Taylor began talking to her in a sexual way, and then told her he wanted her to have his child.	main
He and another student exchanged about 6,000 text messages during a three-month period, the investigation showed.	main
That student said Taylor groped her in the school cafeteria and made inappropriate comments to her.	main
She eventually agreed to have sex with him at a motel after he asked her for months to be intimate with him, according to the report.	main
The administrator, Malik Taylor, 31, had sexual intercourse with students who ranged in age from 16 to 19, and also sexually harassed four other students while he worked as a community assistant and a dean at the high school, the Business of Sports School in Midtown, according to a report by the special commissioner of investigation for the city’s schools.	main
In an interview with investigators in June, Taylor admitted that he had had unprotected sex with students in motel rooms, in the back of his car and in classrooms after school.	cause_specific
He made lewd comments about the size of students’ buttocks and breasts, and sent inappropriate text messages from a cellphone assigned to his wife, the report stated.	main
He also asked one of the students to buy marijuana for him, it said.	main
Taylor emailed his resignation to the school’s principal, Joshua Solomon, in May, after one of the students told him that she had reported him.	cause_specific
That student told a teacher that she was having a sexual relationship with Taylor, and that she knew of others who were as well.	cause_specific
The teacher then told the school’s assistant principal, Rosa Choi, who notified the special commissioner’s office.	cause_specific
The city has referred the report to the district attorneys in Manhattan and Brooklyn for further action.	cause_general
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
They are also accused of hiding information from investigators and lying to a grand jury.	cause_specific
The allegations stem from an incident in 2001, in which former Penn State assistant coach Mike McQueary said he saw Sandusky molesting a boy in a university shower.	distant_historical
At Sandusky’s trial, McQueary testified that he reported the incident to Joe Paterno - Penn State’s famed former coach - Curley and Schultz.	cause_specific
Curley and Schultz have said McQueary did not make it clear the act was sexual in nature.	distant_evaluation
Spanier denied knowing the full nature of the incident.	distant_evaluation
But emails between the three men revealed that Spanier, Curley and Schultz had decided in 2001 to confront Sandusky themselves, instead of reporting the allegations.	distant_evaluation
“The only downside for us is if the message isn’t 'heard’ and acted upon, and we then become vulnerable for not having reported it,” Spanier wrote at the time.	distant_historical
The emails also included discussion of abuse allegations against Sandusky from 1998.	distant_historical
Spanier had testified to a grand jury that he had not been aware of the 1998 allegations.	cause_specific
McQueary testified this week that Paterno had told him that the university botched its response to the Sandusky scandal and warned him that he would be made the scapegoat.	cause_specific
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
McQueary said Paterno told him, “Old Main screwed up,” referencing the landmark campus building that houses the offices of the president and other administrators.	distant_historical
);	error
Three former high-ranking Penn State officials, including the university’s former president, Graham B. Spanier, were ordered Tuesday to stand trial on charges that they were part of a cover-up related to the child sexual abuse scandal involving former football coach Jerry Sandusky.	main
After a two-day preliminary hearing this week, Harrisburg District Judge William Werner decided there was enough evidence against Spanier, retired university vice president Gary Schultz and former athletic director Tim Curley to proceed with a trial, which could start later this year.	cause_specific
That would be the next public chapter of the scandal, which threw the university and its most prominent athletic program into turmoil.	distant_expectations_consequences
Two weeks ago, Penn State’s board of trustees authorized the payment of about $60 million to settle claims made by dozens of Sandusky’s victims.	cause_general
The numerous charges against the men include perjury, conspiracy and endangering the welfare of children.	cause_specific
During the preliminary hearing, prosecutors accused the men of knowing of abuse allegations against Sandusky but failing to properly report them.	cause_specific
EDS: SUBS lede to RECAST.	error
Instead, he was forgotten inside the cell for four days.	distant_historical
Without food or water, he drank his own urine, contemplated taking his own life and tried to scratch a goodbye note to his mother into his arm.	distant_historical
When agents found him on the fifth day, he thought he might be minutes from death.	distant_evaluation
He spent several days in a hospital intensive care unit, where he was treated for severe dehydration and kidney failure.	distant_historical
Over the past year, his lawyers said, he has continued to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder.	distant_evaluation
“His doctor said this was one of the worst cases of stress he had ever seen,” Eugene G. Iredale, one of Chong’s lawyers, said in an interview Wednesday.	distant_evaluation
The DEA issued an apology shortly after Chong was found in the cell.	distant_historical
A spokeswoman for the agency Wednesday refused to comment on the settlement but confirmed that the detention policies had been changed.	cause_general
The Office of the Inspector General in the Justice Department was reviewing the case.	cause_general
);	error
LOS ANGELES - A year after Daniel Chong, a San Diego college student, was found hallucinating and suffering from kidney failure inside a Drug Enforcement Administration holding cell where he had been accidentally left for four days, the agency has agreed to compensate him for his ordeal.	main
The federal government has agreed to pay Chong $4.1 million, Julia Yoo, one of his lawyers, said this week.	main
Chong’s lawyers filed a legal claim seeking $20 million last year.	distant_historical
“It was an accident,” Chong, now 25, said at a news conference Tuesday to announce the settlement, “a really, really bad, terrible accident.”	distant_evaluation
Chong was picked up last year during a raid on his friend’s house, where he and some friends had gathered to smoke marijuana.	distant_evaluation
Chong, a student at the University of California, San Diego, and the other suspects were taken to DEA offices, where he was interviewed.	distant_historical
Agents told Chong that he would be released, he said, and he was taken to a holding cell to wait for what he was told would be a few minutes.	distant_historical
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager David Einhorn lambasted Tesla Inc (TSLA.O) and its “despondent” Chief Executive Elon Musk on Friday, comparing the electric car company to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, where he had flagged accounting problems several months before its 2008 collapse.	main
Its shares were down 7 percent at $262.05 in late afternoon trading.	cause_general
Greenlight is having a difficult year, with its main fund down 25.7 percent through September, but said its Tesla short position was its second biggest winner in the third quarter.	cause_general
In an investor presentation in May 2008, four months before Lehman went bankrupt, Einhorn had questioned the investment bank’s accounting, including for real estate, and said it needed to raise large amounts of capital.	distant_historical
Einhorn said Tesla has “many parallels” to Lehman, which he said “threatened short sellers, refused to raise capital (it even bought back stock), and management publicly suggested it would go private.”	main
“Months later, shareholders, creditors, employees and the global economy paid a big price when management’s reckless behavior led to bankruptcy,” Einhorn said.	main
He said a big problem for Musk is that Tesla would lose too much money targeting a mass audience by selling its Model 3 at a $35,000 starting price, and yet “can’t bring himself” to cancel the program and refund customer deposits.	main
“His conduct suggests that he is doing his best to be relieved of his position as CEO to avoid accountability,” Einhorn said.	main
Musk, for his part, has used Twitter to mock Einhorn, saying on Aug. 1 he would “send Einhorn a box of short shorts to comfort him through this difficult time.”	distant_historical
Greenlight said it also sold its last Apple Inc (AAPL.O) shares in August at $228 per share, eight years after buying the iPhone maker at less than one-sixth that price, on growing fear of “Chinese retaliation against America’s trade policies.	distant_historical
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: David Einhorn, President of Greenlight Capital, Inc., presents during the 2018 Sohn Investment Conference in New York City, U.S., April 23, 2018.	error
Its shares were down 1.4 percent at $224.71 late Friday.	cause_general
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid	error
“Like Lehman, we think the deception is about to catch up to TSLA,” Einhorn’s firm Greenlight Capital, which has sold Tesla shares short, said in a quarterly investor letter obtained by Reuters.	main
“Elon Musk’s erratic behavior suggests that he sees it the same way.”	main
Greenlight’s letter came one day after Musk, a longtime critic of short-sellers, appeared to taunt the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by calling it the “Shortseller Enrichment Commission” on Twitter.	cause_general
That came just five days after Musk settled SEC fraud charges, in an accord that lets him remain Tesla’s chief executive but requires he step aside as chairman.	cause_general
A judge has yet to approve the settlement.	cause_general
Tesla did not immediately respond to requests for comment.	cause_general
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Distressed investor Marble Ridge Capital LP said in a letter to Neiman Marcus Group Ltd LLC that the luxury department store company may be in default on its debt after it moved its Mytheresa business into an entity belonging to the retailer’s private equity owners.	main
Ares and CPPIB did not immediately respond to requests for comment.	cause_general
The transfer may have made the company insolvent, Marble Ridge said in the letter dated Sept. 18 and seen by Reuters.	main
Marble Ridge owns bonds and a portion of the term loan of Neiman Marcus.	cause_general
Moving Mytheresa strips “an important and valuable asset away from the creditors of the company and (gifts it) to Ares and CPPIB,” for nothing in return, according to the letter.	main
Mytheresa’s earnings growth has outpaced Neiman Marcus, its outlet stores Last Call and Bergdorf Goodman online, Thomson Reuters IFR reported in a story this week, citing a JPMorgan analyst report.	cause_general
Brick-and-mortar retailers including department stores have been hit hard by the rise in popularity of online shopping, with dozens filing for bankruptcy over the past several years.	distant_evaluation
Reuters reported last year that Neiman Marcus was working with an investment bank to address its debt load.	distant_historical
J.	cause_general
Crew Group Inc, another upscale fashion retailer, faced litigation from its creditors after it moved its intellectual property to an affiliated company in a debt restructuring deal.	cause_general
“These recent actions threaten the viability of a storied franchise that includes marquee brands such as Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman,” another luxury department store also owned by the retailer, said Dan Kamensky, managing partner of Marble Ridge, in a statement about the letter, parts of which were made public on Friday.	distant_evaluation
Marble Ridge is working with law firm Brown Rudnick LLP and plans to organize with other creditors to look into the Mytheresa move, according to a person familiar with the matter.	distant_expectations_consequences
The hedge fund last year pursued a similar strategy with Singapore-based Global A&T Electronics Ltd.	distant_historical
“We believe a more responsible board would have engaged in a strategic review to maximize value for the benefit of all of the company’s stakeholders,” Kamensky said.	distant_evaluation
Buyout firm Ares Management LP and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) acquired Neiman Marcus for $6 billion in 2013, saddling the retailer with about $4.7 billion in debt.	distant_historical
Neiman Marcus said on Tuesday it moved the Mytheresa online business to an entity called Neiman Marcus Group Inc, owned by Ares and CPPIB.	cause_specific
“As publicly disclosed, Mytheresa was already an unrestricted, non-guarantor subsidiary not part of our lenders’ collateral and it will remain outside of the collateral,” Neiman Marcus said in a statement.	cause_general
“This reorganization was expressly permitted by the company’s credit documents.”	cause_general
HONG KONG (Reuters) - At least five insurers, including Britain’s Prudential (PRU.L) and Canada’s Sun Life (SLF.TO), have bid for Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s (CBA) (CBA.AX) majority stake in an Indonesian insurance venture, people with knowledge of the process said.	main
Sequis said it could not comment now as it was “bound by NDA”, or non-disclosure agreement.	cause_general
The people declined to be named as they were not allowed to talk to the media about the deal process.	cause_general
The Australian lender has been selling some of its businesses over the past year after suffering a string of scandals including rate-rigging charges, breaches of anti-money laundering laws, and fees charged to dead clients.	cause_general
CBA sold its insurance business in Australia and New Zealand to AIA Group (1299.HK) for $3.1 billion last year.	distant_historical
It also said this year its loss-making digital banking unit in South Africa was being sold for an undisclosed sum.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Indonesian stake sale, if completed, will also be another instance of Asian banks exiting the insurance sector to free up capital and focus on their core banking businesses amid tougher regulatory capital buffer requirements.	distant_expectations_consequences
GROWING MARKET	cause_general
Asia is a battleground for foreign insurers including Aviva (AV.L), Prudential and Sun Life, attracted by the region’s lower insurance penetration levels and faster growth rates for insurance premiums.	distant_evaluation
The people said the foreign insurers competing for CBA’s stake in the Indonesian venture were looking to bolster their presence in Southeast Asia, which has seen a handful of M&A deals in the last couple of years in the insurance sector.	cause_specific
Swiss group Zurich Insurance (ZURN.S) said on Thursday it was acquiring an 80 percent stake in Indonesia’s Adira Insurance from PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN.JK) and a minority investor for at least $414 million.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: A man walks past a branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in central Sydney, Australia, February 7, 2018.	error
FWD, owned by Hong Kong billionaire tycoon Richard Li, has agreed to buy HSBC Holdings’ (HSBA.L) stake in a Malaysian insurance joint venture as part of a plan to expand its presence in Asia, sources told Reuters last month.	cause_general
Sun Life, which operates in seven Asian markets including China, Hong Kong, India, the Philippines and Malaysia, has in recent years made a series of deals in the region to acquire businesses or raise its ownership in several of those markets.	cause_general
CBA raised its holding in Commonwealth Life to 80 percent in 2007 in what was then a 50:50 joint venture.	distant_historical
The remaining 20 percent is owned by an Indonesian firm, PT Gala Arta Jaya, according to the insurer’s website.	cause_general
Besides the insurance joint venture, CBA also has a retail and business banking presence in Indonesia.	cause_general
REUTERS/Daniel Munoz	error
The stake sale, which could value the venture at between $250 million and $300 million, has also received second-round bids from insurer FWD Group, Singapore-listed Great Eastern Holdings (GELA.SI), and Indonesia’s Sequis Life, three people said.	main
Australia’s biggest lender is selling its 80 percent stake in PT Commonwealth Life, which has a presence in 20 Indonesian cities with more than 500,000 individual and group customers, Reuters reported in January.	distant_historical
The interest in PT Commonwealth Life is the latest case of foreign insurers wanting to expand their life business in Southeast Asia, a region of more than 600 million people.	distant_evaluation
In March, CBA confirmed that it was undertaking a strategic review of its Indonesian life insurance business, and that it has engaged external advisers for guidance on a possible sale of the venture.	distant_historical
The second-round bids were submitted last week, the people said, adding potential buyers are likely to be further short-listed within the next few weeks before a decision is made by CBA.	distant_expectations_consequences
Representatives of CBA, FWD, Great Eastern, Prudential, and Sun Life declined to comment.	cause_general
BEIJING (Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp, long opposed to producing its premium Lexus cars in China because of concerns over quality and profitability, is now considering it to ignite growth and narrow sales gaps with its German rivals, four company insiders told Reuters.	main
The rule changes - affecting electric carmakers this year and others by 2022 - led Tesla Inc to gain Beijing’s approval for a wholly-owned China manufacturing and sales company in Shanghai.	cause_general
That marked the first time a foreign carmaker established itself in China without a partner.	cause_general
Toyota already produces numerous Toyota-brand models, including the Camry, Highlander, Corolla, Levin and Crown, in China with partners.	cause_general
Last year it sold 1.29 million cars there, including imported Lexuses.	distant_historical
Toyota had contemplated moving Lexus production to China before - as far back as 2011-12, according to one of the four insiders.	distant_historical
But it had until now considered a potential erosion of quality too much of a risk, and didn’t want to sacrifice the brand’s relatively high margins by sharing profits with a local partner.	distant_evaluation
Two of the Toyota insiders said the automaker had identified specific scenarios for localizing Lexus.	cause_general
“All the preparation has been more or less completed,” one said.	distant_evaluation
“All we’re waiting is a ‘go’ from management.”	distant_evaluation
TRICKY TIMING	distant_evaluation
The company, which imports Lexus models made in Japan to sell in China, has spent the last two years researching how to produce them locally.	cause_general
Toyota’s preferred option is to own all or most of a localized Lexus unit, which it could do immediately by building only electric cars.	distant_evaluation
(Lexus has plans for electric battery and plug-in electric hybrid versions of existing models.)	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Toyota workers inspect the new Lexus ES vehicles at a Toyota plant in Miyawaka, southern Japan, July 6, 2012.	error
REUTERS/Yoko Kubota/File Photo	error
But China might not let another brand in when the market has slowed down significantly, with sales of some foreign vehicles, including Groupe PSA, Ford and Hyundai, all falling in the gutter in recent months.	distant_expectations_consequences
“You’d still need a good political follow-wind to execute this,” one of the sources said, pointing to help from Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has a state visit to China planned for this month.	distant_evaluation
Even as other premium brands - such as Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Cadillac - have opened assembly plants in China to gain market share, Toyota has resisted.	cause_general
That reluctance reflects the company’s unwillingness to share with a Chinese partner a brand painstakingly built since 1989 into a top premium car in the United States.	distant_evaluation
Opponents inside Toyota also point to China’s lowering tariffs on passenger cars to 15 percent from 25 percent in July as a reason to keep importing Lexuses.	cause_general
They also note that the nearest Lexus plant to China is at the northern tip of Japan’s southernmost main island of Kyushu -only two days from Shanghai by sea.	cause_general
Toyota also talked to its Chinese joint-venture partners – Guangzhou Automobile Group Co and FAW Group - last year about Lexus models.	distant_historical
A Toyota spokesman in Tokyo said “the most important task” for Lexus is to become a distinguished brand in China.	distant_evaluation
“We always weigh the need for localizing production as part of the consideration for the Lexus brand’s future in China,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“But at this point in time, we don’t have any specific plans for producing Lexus cars in China.”	distant_evaluation
Nonetheless, support for localization is growing among Toyota leaders.	distant_evaluation
China has typically been a difficult market for Japanese companies, but there is new optimism, especially after an official visit to Japan by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in May.	distant_evaluation
During his visit, Li toured Toyota facilities on the northern island of Hokkaido, escorted by the company’s family scion and chief executive, Akio Toyoda.	distant_historical
Toyoda has since sought to boost his company’s presence in China, including an effort to significantly expand its manufacturing capacity and distribution networks, and share more technologies with Chinese companies.	cause_general
NEED FOR SPEED	distant_expectations_consequences
China has also proposed limiting new production capacity for automakers, adding an incentive for Toyota to move quickly if it wants to build Lexus models there.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nissan Motor Co and Toyota have each recently revealed plans to boost capacity, much of which will be used to produce electric cars.	cause_general
It wasn’t clear whether Toyota approached the Chinese companies about a partnership or vice versa.	distant_historical
Alan Kang, a Shanghai-based analyst for consultancy LMC Automotive, thinks localizing production is exactly what Lexus needs to start narrowing the big sales gap with German premium brands.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Mercedes-Benz, for example, last year sold about 610,000 vehicles, compared to 130,000 for Lexus during the same year, according to LMC.	distant_historical
“If Lexus doesn’t want to remain a niche, it needs to start investing more,” Kang said.	distant_evaluation
Local production would be a major shift for the world’s largest automaker, encouraged by improved China-Japan ties, as well as new Chinese investment rules that might allow foreign automakers to fully own or majority-control China operations.	distant_evaluation
“We’re torn over this,” said one of the insiders.	distant_evaluation
“But it makes little sense to let this opportunity slip by,” another told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
All four insiders declined to be identified because they are not authorized to speak to the media.	cause_general
China’s planned scrapping of foreign ownership restrictions in the auto industry is in part a response to criticism that Chinese companies have been largely allowed to invest freely in outside markets while Beijing limits foreign firms’ access to the world’s second-largest economy.	cause_specific
ALCANTARA SPACE CENTER, Brazil (Reuters) - Brazil is ready to launch small commercial rockets from its space base near the equator as soon as it agrees to safeguard U.S. technology that is dominant in the industry, the Brazilian Air Force officer managing the space program said on Friday.	main
The accord on sharing real-time tracking data on objects and debris in space is needed to develop a satellite launching business without the risk of collision.	cause_general
Boeing Co (BA.N) and Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT.N) in December visited the Alcantara space center, which is especially attractive to smaller firms, such as Tucson, Arizona-based rocket-maker Vector Launch Inc, because its equatorial location cuts fuel costs by a third allowing heavier payloads.	distant_historical
But Brazil’s plan to become a new hub in the space industry will depend on concluding a technology safeguard agreement (TSA) with the United States to protect sensitive American space launch and satellite technology, Aguiar said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Without it, no U.S. rocket can blast off from the South American country.	distant_expectations_consequences
A previous attempt at a U.S.-Brazilian space partnership was scuttled in 2003 when the TSA ran into resistance from the leftist government of former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and was thwarted by Brazilian lawmakers.	distant_historical
Aguiar said that agreement floundered because it allowed the U.S. unverified access to the Alcantara base that was not acceptable on sovereignty grounds.	distant_evaluation
A new Brazilian proposal under consideration by the U.S. government will be more “palatable” to the Brazilian Congress.	distant_evaluation
The TSA is seen by Washington as opening opportunities for greater cooperation in aerospace and defense between the two countries.	distant_evaluation
The market for small satellite launches is expected to grow fast in the next few years and the U.S. space industry is keen to see new launch capacity in the world and a quick resolution to the negotiation of the TSA with Brazil.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Demand for launch services has outstripped supply globally and another launch site is needed.	distant_evaluation
A view of Alcantara space center during a media members visit in Alcantara, Maranhao State, Brazil September 14, 2018.	error
Because of its location, Alcantara offers advantages no other site in the world provides,” an industry source said.	distant_evaluation
Aguiar said the government will set up a company called Alada to market the launch site.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said the Air Force has been in talks with Brazilian aerospace company Embraer SA on how to manage the business going forward.	cause_general
One possibility, Brazilian Air Force officials said, is a joint venture with Embraer’s satellite company Visiona, which is not part of the planned $4.75 billion tie-up between Boeing and Embraer’s commercial aviation arm.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Adriano Machado	error
Brig.	distant_evaluation
Major Luiz Fernando Aguiar said Brazil wants to get a piece of the $300 billion-a-year space launch business by drawing U.S. companies interested in launching small satellites at a lower cost from the Alcantara base on its north coast.	distant_evaluation
“The microsatellite market is most attractive today and we are interested in the 50 to 500-kilo niche,” Aguiar told Reuters at the base’s main launch pad.	distant_evaluation
“We are developing a rocket for microsatellites.	distant_evaluation
For that this tower is totally ready.”	distant_evaluation
Space cooperation between the United States and Brazil took a big step forward when they signed a Space Situational Awareness (SSA) agreement last month during a visit to Brasilia by U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis.	cause_specific
NEW YORK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A new investment fund for green businesses and a tool to measure emissions were among the pledges to help governments curb global warming at a summit on climate financing convened by the French president on Wednesday.	main
The one-day gathering in New York, where world leaders were gathered for the United Nations General Assembly, drew the leaders of global companies as well as more than two dozen heads of state and government.	cause_general
The World Bank, which lends to developing countries, announced a platform to pledge $1 billion toward developing battery-storage technology.	distant_expectations_consequences
Energy storage is becoming increasingly important as production of renewable energy rises, because the wind might not blow or the sun shine during the peak hours when most consumers turns on their lights and appliances.	distant_evaluation
Tech giant Google announced the launch of a tool to generate data on greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic and on the solar capacity of cities, which it captures through its popular mapping service Google Earth.	cause_general
“If you cannot measure it you can’t manage it,” said Michael Bloomberg, the former New York mayor who is now the U.N. Secretary General’s special envoy for Cities and Climate Change.	distant_evaluation
Cities worldwide account for more than 70 percent of carbon dioxide emissions.	cause_general
Climate change is causing more frequent and severe flooding, droughts, storms and heatwaves as average global temperatures rise to new records, sea ice melts in the Arctic and sea levels rise.	cause_specific
The second “One Planet” summit took place nearly three years after almost 200 governments agreed the Paris accord to end the fossil-fuel era this century and limit further global warming to well below 2 degrees above pre-industrial times.	cause_general
U.S. President Donald Trump weakened the pact last year when he said the United States, the world’s second biggest greenhouse gas polluter after China, would pull out.	distant_historical
French President Emmanuel Macron speaks at the One Planet Summit in New York, U.S., September 26, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton	error
Emmanuel Macron called on government and business leaders to invest more in slowing down climate change as he opened the second annual “One Planet” summit in New York.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We have to shift one third of the global financing to financing of climate change and new climate action,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“So governments, the World Bank, all the development banks, business leaders and investors, it is our job.	distant_evaluation
Everybody is waiting for us and everybody today wants us just to accelerate.”	distant_evaluation
BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said it would help structure a climate fund for investment in green sectors such as renewable energy and low-carbon transportation across Latin America, Asia, and Africa.	distant_expectations_consequences
The French and German governments and large philanthropic organizations including The Hewlett Foundation have pledged initial funds to the Climate Finance Partnership, which organizers said would be set up next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
BERLIN (Reuters) - German retailer Metro AG plans to sell its struggling Real hypermarkets and is confident of interest in the chain, though bankers played down talk it might attract Amazon and a price tag of up to 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion).	main
HSBC’s European retail analyst, Andrew Porteous, welcomed the plan and raised his price target for Metro shares to 14 euros from 11.50 euros.	distant_evaluation
“Increased focus is a positive,” he said in a note.	distant_evaluation
“We have consistently held that Metro needed to simplify in order to create value.”	distant_evaluation
Large European retailers such as Ahold, Carrefour, Auchan, Tesco are unlikely to bid for Real, people familiar with the industry said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The chain may attract more interest from investors such as Apollo-backed Alteri, owner of Babywalz and CBR Fashion Group or from other private equity firms.	distant_expectations_consequences
Buyout groups, have had mixed results though with retail in Germany and several deals - such as Sun Capital’s Neckermann investment - have turned sour.	distant_evaluation
Some analysts speculated Amazon could be interested after its acquisition of U.S. grocery chain Whole Foods last year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Germany is its second biggest market after the United States.	cause_general
“Germany’s grocery ecommerce is very underdeveloped and Germany is a very important country for Amazon,” said Bernstein analyst Bruno Monteyne, adding a price of around 1 billion euros would be no hurdle for the ecommerce giant.	distant_evaluation
An Amazon spokesman declined to comment and the buyout groups named either declined to comment or were not immediately available.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: German retailer Metro AG sign is seen on the headquarters in Duesseldorf, Germany March 02, 2018.	error
FINDING A BUYER	cause_general
Real has suffered from tough competition from the advance of online players like Amazon and has sought to build up an online grocery business in recent years.	distant_evaluation
Its ecommerce still only accounts for 2 percent of its 7.2 billion euro sales.	cause_general
The business posted a loss and saw sales slide 7.2 percent in the latest quarter, which it blamed on an early Easter and unusually hot weather.	cause_general
Bankers do not view Real as high on Amazon’s shopping list.	distant_evaluation
One said Real could be sold for “near zero at best”, while another said Metro may have to pay to offload the business.	distant_expectations_consequences
Koch said selling Real was not connected to Daniel Kretinsky buying a stake in Metro last month, although he said the company had met the Czech billionaire, whose move prompted speculation he could make a full bid and take Metro private.	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts said a financial investor might be interested in the real estate value of the 65 hypermarkets that Real owns, while other options could be a sale of parcels of stores to chains like Lidl or dominant supermarket group Edeka.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, peers need to tread carefully to avoid anti-trust concerns like those that dogged Edeka’s purchase of loss-making chain Kaiser’s in 2015.	distant_expectations_consequences
One of the bankers said fellow German supermarket chain Kaufland, held by Lidl owner Schwarz Group, could show an interest in some sites.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Thilo Schmuelgen/File Photo	error
Koch told journalists the aim was to sell Real as a whole rather than as a bundle of stores.	distant_evaluation
Trade union Verdi criticized Metro’s treatment of Real’s 34,000 workers in recent years and said the company should be sold as a whole.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: German retailer Metro AG supermarket in Duesseldorf, Germany March 02, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Thilo Schmuelgen/File Photo	error
“First the workforce forwent part of their wages ... then the company shredded the collective bargaining agreement, and now Real is going to be sold,” said Stefanie Nutzenberger from Verdi.	distant_evaluation
In focusing its business, Metro has already sold its Kaufhof department stores and split from consumer electronics retailer Ceconomy.	cause_general
Real’s stores in eastern Europe were sold to French retailer Auchan in 2012.	distant_historical
Metro’s shares closed down 1.2 percent in Frankfurt at 13.51 euros.	cause_general
Industry bankers contacted by Reuters said private equity firms were the most likely bidders and that Metro might have to effectively pay a buyer to take the chain off its hands.	distant_expectations_consequences
Foreign players have shunned the cut-throat German grocery market, which is dominated by discounters Aldi and Lidl, since Walmart took a loss of $1 billion when it sold its stores to Metro and pulled out of the country in 2006.	cause_general
Metro says it wants to focus on its wholesale business which serves independent traders, hotels and restaurants and is more shielded from ecommerce, while doing more delivery to customers.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The fact that we repeatedly had expressions of interest shows that we can take up the journey again,” Metro’s chief executive Olaf Koch told journalists on Friday.	distant_evaluation
Metro previously tried to sell Real in 2012 and a consortium of Apollo and Towerbrook made an offer, as did KKR, before the retailer opted instead to restructure the chain.	distant_historical
Koch expected the sales process to take up to eight months.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - A British regulator on Thursday fined credit reference company Equifax Inc’s UK arm, Equifax Ltd, 500,000 pounds for failing to protect the personal information of up to 15 million people in Britain during a 2017 cyber attack.	main
Equifax contravened five out of eight data protection principles of the Data Protection Act 1998, including failure to secure personal data, poor retention practices and lack of legal basis for international transfers of UK citizens’ data, the ICO said.	cause_specific
The ICO found that measures that should have been in place to manage the personal information were inadequate and ineffective.	cause_specific
Investigators found significant problems with data retention, IT system patching and audit procedures.	cause_specific
The investigation also found that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security had warned Equifax about a critical vulnerability as far back as March 2017 and that sufficient steps to address the vulnerability were not taken, the ICO said.	cause_specific
As a credit reporting agency, Equifax keeps vast amounts of consumer data for banks and other creditors to use to determine the chances of their customers’ defaulting.	cause_general
Equifax first disclosed in September 2017 that it had been the target of a massive data breach, mostly in the United States.	distant_historical
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) said in a statement its investigation found that although Equifax systems in the United States were compromised, Equifax Ltd was responsible for the personal information of its customers in Britain.	cause_specific
Equifax said its UK office received the Monetary Penalty Notice from the ICO on Wednesday and was evaluating the notice and its response.	main_consequence
Equifax added that it cooperated fully throughout the investigation.	cause_general
The cyber attack, which took place between May 13 and July 30, 2017, affected 146 million Equifax customers globally, the ICO said.	cause_general
bit.ly/2xv5cTk	error
The British arm of the company failed to take appropriate steps to ensure its American parent company, Equifax Inc, which was processing the data on its behalf, was protecting the information, the ICO said.	cause_specific
It said the investigation, carried out in parallel with the Financial Conduct Authority, revealed multiple failures at the company, which led to personal information being retained for longer than necessary and vulnerable to unauthorized access.	cause_specific
The personal information lost or compromised ranged from names and dates of birth to addresses, passwords, driving license and financial details.	cause_general
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - EU antitrust regulators are asking retailers and manufacturers whether Amazon’s (AMZN.O) sales of own brand products similar to theirs have harmed their business, a move which could lead to a formal case and possibly fines against the U.S. tech giant.	main
Retailers were given until Oct. 9 to reply to the 16-page questionnaire.	cause_general
One of the companies surveyed by the Commission posted the questionnaire online.	cause_general
Amazon declined to comment.	cause_general
Vestager has said she wants to check whether all the data gathered by Amazon gives it an edge.	cause_specific
“Is that giving you as the big guy, and in some member states a very big guy, an advantage that cannot be matched because you have this special access to data?,” she told reporters in Washington on Thursday.	cause_specific
The issue has two competition angles, said an antitrust lawyer who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue.	distant_evaluation
“Is there an abuse of dominance in the market and the way Amazon deals with sensitive data?” the lawyer said.	distant_evaluation
Vestager can levy fines of up to 10 percent of a company’s global turnover for breaching EU rules as well as force them to change their business practices.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Workers collect customer orders during Black Friday deals week at an Amazon fulfilment centre in Hemel Hempstead, Britain November 25, 2015.	error
REUTERS/Neil Hall/File Photo	error
European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said last week she was looking into whether the world’s largest online retailer was using merchants’ data illegally.	cause_specific
The European Commission’s focus is on Amazon’s dual function, as a company hosting merchants on its site and as a rival to these same retailers via its own products, made or improved based on the retailers’ data.	cause_general
In a questionnaire sent to retailers, the Commission asked whether Amazon’s own brand products launched in the past five years were identical or very similar to rival products offered on its platform.	main
Merchants were asked how Amazon’s products have affected their business, their investment, marketing, pricing, sales strategy and business decisions, and whether the number of sellers increased or decreased following Amazon’s entry.	cause_general
Regulators also wanted to know if Amazon had contacted retailers or their suppliers before launching new products.	cause_general
Merchants were asked to provide documents such as exchanges with Amazon or their suppliers and screenshots of websites to prove their claims.	cause_general
(Corrects paragraph 11 to show Mercuria, Trafigura forecast that oil ‘could’ spike to $100 a barrel)	error
Some traders are forecasting that the sanctions could remove up to 1.5 million barrels per day of crude from the market.	distant_expectations_consequences
Global benchmark Brent crude jumped more than 3 percent on Monday to a four-year high above $80 a barrel after Saudi Arabia and Russia ruled out any immediate increase in production despite calls by U.S. President Donald Trump for action to raise global supply.	cause_general
<O/R>	error
Any push towards higher oil prices will need new drivers, with the current oil prices having already factored in market risks, Muller said in comments during APPEC.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Anything leading to higher numbers will require some new evidence coming to light,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Substantial additions of non-OPEC supply of up to 2 million barrels per day could flow to global markets next year, with half of that to come from the United States, he added.	distant_expectations_consequences
He declined to provide an oil price forecast but his comments appear to be less bullish than commodity traders such as Mercuria and Trafigura which said oil could spike to $100 a barrel by early 2019.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separately, Muller added that a deal to acquire stakes in Nigerian offshore fields that are held by Brazil’s Petrobras and its partners, is not yet finalised.	distant_evaluation
“It’s a deal that’s going to be rather big for Vitol... there is a transaction being finalised,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Reuters reported in June that a consortium led by Vitol has entered exclusive talks to acquire the assets which are estimated to be worth up to $2.5 billion.	distant_historical
A sign is pictured in front of Vitol Group trading commodities company building in Geneva October 4, 2011.	error
REUTERS/Denis Balibouse	error
By Jessica Jaganathan	error
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Energy trader Vitol [VITOLV.UL] will stop doing business with Iran after the United States re-imposes sanctions on Tehran’s oil trade from Nov. 4, a senior company executive said on Tuesday.	main
“Business with Iran or anything to do with Iran has to come to an end,” said Mike Muller, who handles business development for Vitol, on the sidelines of the Asia Pacific Petroleum Conference (APPEC) in Singapore.	distant_evaluation
“We have a long-standing relationship with Iran and clearly I look forward to when trade can be resumed, but for now, one needs explicit waivers from the U.S., and not just the U.S. but the global banking community and everything else,” he said.	cause_specific
The United States announced in May that it would re-impose sanctions on Iran, the third-largest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, to force the country to renegotiate an agreement limiting Iran’s nuclear program.	distant_historical
The sanctions started on Aug. 7 with limitations on the country’s access to the global financial system and in November will be extended to Iran’s petroleum sector.	distant_expectations_consequences
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German publishing group Bertelsmann (BTGGg.F) said on Monday it was buying U.S. online education provider OnCourse Learning from private equity firm CIP Capital in a deal worth around $500 million.	main
“There’s certainly a significant opportunity for expanding into life-long learning,” Sarah Simon, media analyst at Berenberg, said of the deal.	distant_evaluation
“We’re all going to have to work for ever, so there’s going to be more demand for people to re-skill themselves and change jobs.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Bertelsmann is one of the few larger companies to invest in the field, along with U.S. publisher John Wiley (JWa.N), while Britain’s Pearson (PSON.L) is more focused on the school and college segment of the U.S. market, added Simon.	distant_evaluation
PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING	cause_general
The acquisition is part of Rabe’s strategic push to invest in growth areas - Bertelsmann’s education division achieved revenue growth of 21 percent in the first half of the year, albeit from a small base.	cause_specific
The education division’s top line was just 111 million euros ($129 million) out of total revenues of 8.2 billion euros.	cause_general
Bertelsmann’s largest business, television broadcaster RTL Group (RRTL.DE), is nearly 30 times bigger.	cause_general
The publisher - which spans eight divisions - is meanwhile close to selling its Arvato CRM call-centre unit to free up capital to invest in growth projects while strengthening its established units, some of which face headwinds.	cause_general
OnCourse Learning, which has an online library of around 22,000 courses, is used by around 750,000 people and 19,000 business customers.	cause_general
The U.S. market for continuing education in healthcare and financial services is estimated at $3.6 billion.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Pencils with the logo of German media group Bertelsmann CEO are seen at the annual news conference Berlin, Germany, March 22, 2016.	error
Its healthcare division will be folded into Bertelsmann subsidiary Relias, which was acquired in 2014 and also operates in the industry, Bertelsmann said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company also has a stake in Udacity, a life-long learning platform founded by German computer scientist Sebastian Thrun.	cause_general
REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch	error
The acquisition backs Bertelsmann’s push into digital education and training, and will boost its presence in the United States, a growth market which already contributes around a fifth of its sales.	distant_evaluation
“We are expanding our education business to include a company with significant growth potential,” said Bertelsmann’s chairman and CEO, Thomas Rabe.	distant_evaluation
“At the same time, the transaction will further strengthen our presence in the U.S., where we already generate more than 20 percent of our revenues.	distant_evaluation
In the future, we expect this share to rise to around 30 percent.”	distant_expectations_consequences
OnCourse Learning, founded in 2007, is based in Brookfield, Wisconsin, and employs 375 people.	cause_general
It provides digital corporate and advanced training courses for healthcare and financial services customers and has a smaller real-estate business.	cause_general
LAGOS (Reuters) - Coca-Cola (KO.N) is moving ahead with plans to take over Nigeria’s leading juice company Chi Ltd and aims to complete the deal early next year, a senior executive told Reuters.	main
“Affordability will start becoming a bigger issue in this market than it was in the past.	distant_expectations_consequences
As a company, that is what we need to factor in as we are thinking about the future of our business in Nigeria,” Njonjo said in an interview.	distant_expectations_consequences
He pointed to the introduction of a 30 centilitre bottle of Coke Zero for 60 naira ($0.20), compared with the standard 50 centilitre bottle for 80 naira, as just one example.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Njonjo said the company’s drive to diversify its product range could also give it more flexibility in a market where unemployment is high and the United Nations estimates most of the population of 190 million lives on less than $2 a day.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We realize that in certain pack formats you can only go down so low,” he said in an interview at his office in the commercial capital Lagos.	distant_evaluation
“But once you start looking at pouches and still products, like juice and drinking yoghurts, that allows you to start accessing much lower price points.”	distant_evaluation
DIVERSIFYING	distant_expectations_consequences
Njonjo said the purchase of Costa could present a “significant opportunity” in Nigeria, despite the absence of a culture of hot-coffee drinking there.	distant_expectations_consequences
“There definitely could be opportunity around ready-to-drink coffee here in Nigeria ... Having iced coffee, blends of dairy and coffee, packaged in different formats,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Coca-Cola crates are pictured in Abuja, Nigeria September 19, 2018.	error
Njonjo said Horlicks, a malt-based hot beverage, was an “interesting proposition” that could be “a significant opportunity on the (African) continent”.	distant_expectations_consequences
But while the company was researching drinks from locally relevant ingredients, such as ginger, he said he could not see a market for marijuana drinks - something the company has said it was closely watching in the past.	distant_evaluation
In January, Coca-Cola announced a global goal to help collect and recycle its packaging.	distant_historical
Njonjo said the company was working in Nigeria to collect bottles and find a way for them to be re-used through a partnership with cement-maker Lafarge in which bottles would be burned in kilns as an energy source.	cause_general
A memorandum of understanding was being formalized and would be signed in the next few weeks, he said, adding that implementation would begin in the last quarter of this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said the company was also working with Lagos state government on marine collection to remove waste from waterways in the city, which is built on a lagoon.	cause_general
($1 = 305.2800 naira)	error
REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde	error
The acquisition for an undisclosed price is one of several steps the U.S. company is taking in a global strategy to diversify from its core business of sugary sodas.	cause_specific
Last month it agreed to buy Costa coffee for $5.1 billion, and sources familiar with the matter say it is also bidding for GlaxoSmithKline’s (GSK.L) Indian Horlicks nutrition business.	cause_general
“We are still on track to complete the acquisition (of Chi Ltd) by the end of the first quarter of 2019,” Peter Njonjo, president of Coca-Cola’s west Africa business, said on Wednesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Coca-Cola bought a 40 percent stake in the Nigerian juice and snack producer in January 2016, and said at the time it aimed to increase ownership within three years.	cause_specific
Juice sales form a central plank of the U.S. company’s attempt to offer drinks at a range of price points in Nigeria to improve affordability in a country where Njonjo sees high inflation and modest economic growth in the coming year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Focusing on smaller bottles and cans is another way the company is trying to woo cash-strapped consumers in Nigeria, which emerged from its first recession in 25 years in 2017 but continues to suffer from sluggish growth and high inflation.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Sears Holdings Corp SHLD.O reported a smaller decline in quarterly same-store sales on Thursday, but warned again that there is doubt about the company’s continued operation as it awaits approval to sell some of its businesses to its chief executive’s hedge fund.	main
These losses are unsustainable.”	distant_evaluation
Sears declined to comment.	cause_general
Sales at Sears’ established stores, including Kmart discount shops, fell 3.9 percent in its second quarter, compared with a drop of 11.9 percent in the first quarter, a positive sign sending the 125-year-old retailer’s shares up 28 percent in extended trading.	main
“Sears has closed hundreds of underperforming stores so its same-store sales should be much better than they have been as only their ‘stronger’ performing stores are in the mix,” said Perkins.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sears said 149 stores will close in the second half of this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company’s net loss widened to $508 million in the fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 4, from $250 million a year before.	cause_general
To shore up its finances, the company is considering selling its storied Kenmore appliance brand and home improvement business to Lampert’s hedge fund, ESL Investments Inc, for as much as $480 million.	cause_general
Last month, Lampert said he could close on a deal for the businesses with an unnamed partner by late August.	cause_general
Sears’ special committee and a majority of disinterested shareholders must approve the sale to ESL.	cause_general
The company has tried to sell these assets before without success.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: A Sears logo is seen inside a department store in Garden City, New York, U.S., May 23, 2016.	error
The company said that some of its efforts to raise cash, including the sale of Kenmore and its home improvement business to Lampert, were at too early a stage to be counted for its quarterly earnings released on Thursday.	distant_evaluation
However, it said if it finalizes its plans to bolster liquidity, and completes discussions with lenders, it will be able to remain in business.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sears’ stock, which traded at about $100 a share more than a decade ago, closed down 9 percent at $1.21 while investors awaited the results, which had been expected to be released earlier on Thursday.	cause_general
The company’s quarterly sales fell 25.6 percent to $3.18 billion as it shut more stores due to declining foot traffic.	cause_general
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton	error
“It is imperative that the Company reduce debt, adjust its debt maturity profile and eliminate the associated cash interest obligations,” Chief Executive Edward Lampert said in a blog post on the company’s website.	distant_evaluation
“We continue to believe that it is in the best interests of all our stakeholders to accomplish this as a going concern, rather than alternatives that could result in significant reductions in value.”	distant_evaluation
Sears is working to transform its business by selling brands like tool line Craftsman and building a stronger online presence.	cause_general
Its market share has been hurt by discount chains including Walmart (WMT.N), and the surge in popularity of online shopping has added to its woes.	distant_evaluation
It was the second time in two years that Sears has expressed doubt about its business continuing as its losses mount.	cause_general
“This year’s statement regarding its ability to remain a going concern is more dire,” Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics Inc. “It has liquidated its best assets and the cupboard is bare.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - British industrial distribution company Electrocomponents (ECM.L) is looking at Germany and the United States for potential bolt-on acquisitions and views China as one of its “greatest investment opportunities” over the next five years.	cause_specific
The FTSE 250 company said it was on track to deliver 4 million pounds of cost savings in the current financial year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ruth, whose efforts have brought a threefold increase in like-for-like revenue and saw its Asia-Pacific operations return to profit in the second half of last year, said that the second phase of the turnaround process was almost complete.	cause_general
“We are quite happy with where we are, but we are still not where we need to be,” Ruth said, adding that there is significant room for improvement, especially in China.	distant_expectations_consequences
Asia-Pacific accounts for 13 percent of the company’s total revenue.	cause_general
($1 = 0.7704 pounds)	error
Electrocomponents made its first acquisition in nearly two decades with its 88 million pound ($114.2 million) purchase of IESA and CEO Lindsley Ruth has now set his sights on gaining increased penetration in the United States and Germany.	main
“They’re two of the biggest markets in the world for the products that we sell,” Ruth told Reuters on Thursday after the company gave an upbeat results outlook.	distant_evaluation
The company, which owns the RS Components, IESA and Allied Electronics & Automation brands, forecast a 27 percent jump in half-year adjusted pretax profit led by strong sales in its RS Pro business.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ruth’s turnaround plan since taking the helm in 2015 has propelled the company’s share price to levels last seen around the dot-com bubble, having plunged by 87 percent to 113 pence in 2009.	cause_general
The shares were up 3.2 percent at 741.4 pence at 1056 GMT on Thursday.	cause_general
Electrocomponents has been cutting costs and simplifying its structure, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, and finance chief David Egan said it plans to invest in both digital and customer acquisitions in the region.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The investment is across Asia-Pacific, but with an emphasis on China,” he told Reuters.	cause_general
The company has been beefing up RS Pro, its high-margin electric and automation tools business, and said the unit outperformed the group in the half year to Sept. 30, with like-for-like revenue growth of 12 percent.	cause_general
The Allergan logo is seen in this photo illustration November 23, 2015.	error
He said the forecast implied an 8 to 10 percent compound annual growth rate.	distant_expectations_consequences
Meury said the Bonti acquisition would allow the company to market a new “starter toxin.” Patients could test drive the treatment, which lasts for two to four weeks, to help them decide if they want to use longer-term Botox.	distant_expectations_consequences
Shares of Allergan fell 0.9 percent to $188.21 on Friday, while shares of Revance were down 1.1 percent and Evolus fell around 2.5 percent.	cause_general
(The story corrects Allergan company stock price in final paragraph.)	error
REUTERS/Thomas White/Illustration/File Photo	error
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Allergan Plc (AGN.N) said revenue from its medical aesthetics business could double by 2025, even as it faces increasing competition for its blockbuster wrinkle treatment, Botox.	main
The drugmaker announced earlier on Friday the acquisition of Bonti Inc, which makes a shorter-acting neurotoxin than Botox.	cause_general
Allergan is also doubling its investment in direct-to-consumer ad spending and beefing up its sales force as companies like Revance Therapeutics Inc (RVNC.O) and Evolus Inc (EOLS.O) vie to wrest market share with rival treatments to Botox.	cause_general
The company made the announcements at its Medical Aesthetics Day in New York.	cause_general
Chief Commercial Officer Bill Meury said Allergan expects revenue at its medical aesthetics unit to grow to $7 billion to $8 billion.	main
That compares with revenue of $3.8 billion from the business in 2017.	distant_historical
Beyond Botox, the unit includes dermal filler Juvederm, the CoolSculpting fat-freezing systems, and other treatments.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Smartphone with AT&T logo is seen in front of displayed Time Warner logo in this picture illustration taken June 13, 2018.	error
The merger, announced in October 2016, was opposed by President Donald Trump.	distant_historical
The merged company includes CNN, a frequent target of Trump’s ire.	cause_general
A group of nine state attorneys general asked the court on Wednesday also to let the lower court stand.	cause_general
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo	error
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other powerful business groups asked an appeals court on Thursday to not undo AT&T Inc’s (T.N) purchase of movie and TV show maker Time Warner, despite the protests of the Justice Department.	main
The chamber, backed by the National Association of Manufacturers, Business Roundtable and others, argued that stopping the merger would “undermine myriad transactions that generally benefit consumers.”	cause_specific
The business groups argued that companies had long assumed that if they bought a supplier or distributor — generally called a vertical merger — that the deal would be considered good for the consumer and would be allowed.	distant_evaluation
“The vague legal standard that the government ... advocate(s) would cloud the business community’s ability to ascertain whether vertical mergers are lawful, making it more difficult to invest in transactions with enormous potential to lower prices and enhance innovation—all of which benefit a diverse array of customers,” the business groups said in a brief court filing.	distant_evaluation
The Justice Department lost a lawsuit in district court to prevent AT&T, which owns satellite company DirecTV, from buying Time Warner over concerns that AT&T would seek to raise prices when licensing Time Warner’s news, sports and other programing to DirecTV’s cable and satellite rivals.	cause_general
AT&T closed the Time Warner deal in June and has said it would manage Time Warner’s Turner cable television networks as part of a separate business unit until February 2019 or the conclusion of the government’s appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.	distant_expectations_consequences
No date has been set for an oral argument.	cause_general
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Aspen Pharmacare has agreed to sell its infant formula business to Lactalis for 12.9 billion rand ($865 million) to focus on core activities while the French buyer looks to revive its baby milk expansion after a health scandal.	main
After 1.1 billion rand to be paid to partners in Asia-Pacific, Aspen will receive 11.8 billion rand, representing 23 times the unit’s earnings of 512 million rand, Deputy Chief Executive Gus Attridge said.	distant_expectations_consequences
CHANCE TO REBUILD	cause_general
For Lactalis, meanwhile, the deal represents an opportunity to rebuild its baby milk business after a salmonella outbreak at its production site in northwest France caused dozens of babies to fall sick and led to a global product recall.	cause_general
Lactalis is the world’s largest dairy firm, with annual sales of 18.4 billion euros ($21.4 billion), but baby milk has been a relatively small part of its activities and is now at a standstill after the health scare.	cause_general
The company’s head of communications, Michel Nalet, said the production halt in France was “one of the factors” behind the move for the Aspen business	distant_evaluation
“In infant formula, we didn’t have a base outside France.	distant_evaluation
We had the desire to be a global player in all dairy businesses,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Aspen’s nutritionals business sells infant milk formula in the Asia-Pacific region, sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America, and has been building a growing presence in the Middle East and China.	cause_general
Privately owned Lactalis, which said the crisis could cost it hundreds of million of euros, decided the production line linked to the contamination should be closed permanently and is now awaiting permission from French authorities to restart output at its other production line.	cause_general
The acquisition will be funded with cash, Aspen said, adding that the proceeds will reduce its debt and that the deal is expected to close in the next six months.	distant_expectations_consequences
Investors in the South African drugmaker appeared unimpressed, however, after expectations that the deal could top $1 billion.	distant_evaluation
Lactalis will also receive any intellectual property and goodwill presently owned by Aspen Holdings and Pharmacare Ltd and Aspen Global Incorporated.	distant_expectations_consequences
Aspen’s infant formula business contributed 3.1 billion rand to group revenue in the year to June 30.	cause_general
The drugmaker posted full-year normalized earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 12 billion rand, up 5 percent, helped by strong growth in China, inclusion of anesthetics portfolios acquired the previous year and positive organic growth in commercial pharmaceuticals.	cause_general
Aspen declared a dividend of 315 cents per share, up 10 percent.	cause_general
($1 = 0.8601 euros)	error
($1 = 14.9147 rand)	error
The company’s share price tumbled after the deal’s announcement on Thursday alongside full-year earnings, dropping 26 percent before paring losses to stand 16.3 percent down at 228.06 rand by 1430 GMT.	cause_general
Rising incomes in emerging markets coupled with global population growth have made infant formula an attractive proposition in a market dominated by Nestle, Danone and Reckitt Benckiser, which acquired Mead Johnson of the United States last year.	distant_evaluation
“The market expected Aspen to get $1 billion to $1.5 billion dollars,” Cratos Capital equity trader Greg Davies said, adding that there is also some doubt over Aspen’s stated growth expectations.	distant_expectations_consequences
FNB Wealth and Investments portfolio manager Wayne McCurrie said a “second disappointment” concerned Aspen’s rising debt levels and whether Africa’s biggest manufacturer of generic drugs had been forced to sell the infant milk business to reduce gearing levels.	distant_evaluation
“The market is worried that they took a decision just on debt and not on the growth prospects of the business, because this business looked quite good,” McCurrie said.	distant_evaluation
“They were pumping it massively over the last year or so and all of a sudden say they are selling it.”	distant_evaluation
Aspen CEO Stephen Saad said the disposal was in line with “our strategic intention to focus attention on our core pharmaceutical business, which includes the anesthetics, thrombosis and high potency and cytotoxic portfolios”.	distant_evaluation
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African media and e-commerce group Naspers’ plan to spin off Multichoice, Africa’s biggest pay-TV business by subscribers, will free up cash for the unit to compete with fast-growing Netflix and other streaming services.	main
It launched Showmax in 2016.	distant_historical
Naspers does not provide subscriber numbers for Showmax, but London-based Digital TV Research estimates it had 334,000 at the end of last year, fewer than half as many as Netflix and mostly in South Africa.	cause_general
SHOWMAX	distant_expectations_consequences
Multichoice had 7.5 billion rand ($503 million) cash at the end of the latest financial disclosure period in March, generated largely from subscription fees of as much as 809 rand a month from some of its 13.5 million households across the continent.	cause_general
“The listing of Multichoice Group will create a leading entertainment business on the JSE that is profitable and cash generative,” Patel said in e-mail reply to questions.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company did not provide details on how it would deploy the money but said its balance sheet would allow it to pursue growth opportunities in African video entertainment and pay a “meaningful dividend” to shareholders.	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts also expect it to scale up Showmax.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I expect them to be quite a good dividend paying stock but on the other hand it is an industry that is facing structural change so I expect them to continue to invest in Showmax to defend the position,” said Renier de Bruyn, a portfolio manager at Sanlam Private Wealth.	distant_expectations_consequences
Multichoice’s dominant position in most of its markets makes it unlikely to seek to acquire rivals.	distant_expectations_consequences
Founded in 1915, Naspers has transformed itself from an apartheid-era newspaper publisher into a $100 billion behemoth thanks largely to cash flow from Multichoice that enabled it to pursue private-equity style investments in e-commerce platforms across the world.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: A satellite dish connecting residents to South Africa's DSTV television network, owned by telecommunications giant Naspers, adorns a shack in Khayelitsha township, Cape Town, May 25, 2017.	error
According to Digital TV Research the number of pay TV users in sub-Saharan Africa - a region of more than a billion people - is expected to jump by three quarters between 2017 and 2023 to nearly 41 million, with more than half of that signing up for satellite TV offerings.	distant_expectations_consequences
Over the same period, subscriptions for streaming services - which also include Kwese, Cell C’s Black and Vodacom’s VideoPlay - are forecast to grow more than six-fold to nearly 10 million.	distant_expectations_consequences
CUTTING EDGE	distant_evaluation
“We’re quite confident.	distant_evaluation
The combination of Multichoice’s reach, Showmax and DSTV Now cutting edge internet television services will provide unique and unmatched offering,” said Multichoice Chief Executive Imtiaz Patel.	distant_evaluation
DSTV Now is an app that allows Multichoice subscribers to live stream channels on the satellite platform.	cause_general
The company has invested heavily in infrastructure that allows it to beam television content since its launch more than 20 years ago.	distant_evaluation
Video offering via satellite is expected to remain at the heart of video entertainment for the majority of Africans for at least the next five years despite a rapid uptake of video on demand offerings from internet streaming services.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bulk of internet users rely on mobile phones to connect but hardly use their data to stream videos because of the cost.	distant_evaluation
In South Africa, for example, a 1GB data bundle costs around 149 rand, a stiff price in a country where the minimum wage is 20 rand an hour.	cause_general
REUTERS/Mike Hutchings/File Photo	error
The listing of Multichoice is likely to fetch between 9 and 12 times its $627 million annual core earnings, or EBITDA, valuing it at least $5.6 billion, bankers and analysts said and making it a blue-chip Top-40 stock on the Johannesburg bourse similar in size to drugmaker Aspen Pharmacare.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We endorse this decision.	distant_evaluation
Naspers recently raised 140 billion rand, twice the size of Multichoice, by selling 2 percent of Tencent and 33 billion rand from the sale of their Flipkart stake,” said Byron Lotter, a portfolio manager at Vestact, which owns shares in Naspers.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Satellite dishes connect township residents to South Africa's DSTV television network, owned by media and e-commerce giant Naspers, in Khayelitsha township, Cape Town, May 19, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Mike Hutchings/File Photo	error
“Historically Naspers used the Multichoice cash cow to fund new acquisitions.	distant_evaluation
They no longer need the cash from Multichoice.”	distant_evaluation
($1 = 14.9056 rand)	error
(1 South African rand = $0.0670)	error
The group, which owns a $155 billion one-third stake in Chinese technology giant Tencent, unveiled plans on Monday to hive off Multichoice to help close a more than 60 percent discount in its share price to the value of its holding in Tencent.	main
This leaves Multichoice free to fend for itself in an increasingly competitive market where Netflix is already supplying thousands of viewers with original TV content and Hollywood hits such as “Stranger Things” and “House of Cards”.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The intention is to basically have absolutely minimal debt going to Multichoice to provide them with flexibility to make any strategic move they want to make,” said Naspers’ chief executive Bob van Dijk.	cause_specific
“We’re not going to suck any cash out of Multichoice.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Although streaming is still rare on a continent hobbled by slow internet speeds, reaching fewer than 2 million of sub-Saharan Africa’s billion citizens, it is increasingly challenging more popular satellite-TV services.	distant_evaluation
Multichoice’s fledgling internet-streaming service, Showmax, is betting a blend of Hollywood blockbusters and local content such as “Real Househelps of Kawangware” and “The Bachelor South Africa” will set it apart from rivals.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - The S&P 500’s three-company telecommunications services index .SPLRCL is about to be folded into a much higher-profile group, but a brighter spotlight may not be enough to boost the stocks as investors continue to favor growth sectors.	main
Instead, they may look to faster-growing internet or media companies for exposure to the growth oriented communications sector.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Telecoms are likely to fade into the background,” according to Patrick Palfrey, equity strategist at Credit Suisse.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Investors aren’t going to look to communications for dividend yield.	distant_expectations_consequences
They’re going to look to it for businesses that have a tremendous opportunity to grow.”	distant_expectations_consequences
With interest rates rising and an economic expansion still intact, investors are putting more money into growth sectors than dividend stocks, which tend to do better in times of economic weakness.	cause_general
And investors looking to balance their portfolio across different sectors with some defensive bets would be unlikely to seek safety in the communications index.	distant_expectations_consequences
“If you wanted to own safety or dividend yield you’d go to real estate investment trusts or utilities.	distant_expectations_consequences
Those sectors are uniformly one theme.	distant_evaluation
That’s dividend yield,” said Palfrey.	distant_evaluation
Wall Street expects the S&P 500 communications sector to generate 21 percent earnings growth and 11.1 percent revenue growth for 2018, compared with 16.7 percent earnings growth and 7.4 percent revenue growth for the telecom stocks, according to data collected by Thomson Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: The AT&T logo is seen on a monitor near traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, U.S. June 13, 2018.	error
Estimates for the next 12 months imply a trading multiple of 18.4 for the communications sector compared with the telecom sector’s multiple of 10.6, according to Thomson Reuters data.	distant_expectations_consequences
GRAPHIC: S&P 500 current telecoms - reut.rs/2CHvx6F	error
State Street Global advisors created the Communication Services Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLC.P) ETF to mirror the reclassified sector while Vanguard created the Vanguard Communication Services index fund (VOX.P).	main_consequence
While the new ETFs will give some support to telecom stocks, the decisions of active investors, could have a bigger impact on performance after the reshuffle as passive investments represent a much smaller portion of equity investments.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to a 2017 estimate from BlackRock, less than 18 percent of the global stock market is owned by index-tracking investors.	distant_historical
Growth funds with large-cap investments have been sharply outperforming large-cap value funds with a 16.4-percent increase in value so far in 2018 while value counterparts gained 4.4 percent.	cause_general
In the last five years, growth funds rose 14.9 percent versus 10 percent for value funds, according to Lipper data.	cause_general
Some stock pickers may take a fresh look at the telephone companies when they join the bigger index, which will make up 10 percent of the S&P 500 compared with the current telecom sector’s a 2 percent weighting, according to Todd Rosenbluth, Director of ETF and mutual fund research at CFRA.	distant_expectations_consequences
And value investors seeking high dividends would still opt for telecom stocks over their faster growing counterparts in the sector because they are cheaper, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
But even the strategists who were most hopeful for a boost from the reclassification sounded cautious.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo	error
“Telecoms is probably one of those areas where people have been leaning too heavily on the negative side,” said Sameer Samana, global equity and technical strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute in St. Louis.	distant_evaluation
“It’s not so much that we like it.	distant_evaluation
It may just be a good time to not be as negative on it.”	distant_evaluation
GRAPHIC: Telecom services stocks vs S&P 500 - tmsnrt.rs/2pluDmK	error
The three telecom stocks - Verizon Communications Inc (VZ.N), AT&T Inc (T.N) and CenturyLink Inc (CTL.N) - will be included a newly-minted S&P 500 Communications Services Sector on Monday, along with high-flyers including Netflix Inc (NFLX.O), Alphabet Inc (GOOGL.O) and Facebook Inc (FB.O).	main
The telecom sector has been the biggest loser among the S&P’s 11 major sectors with an 4.4-percent decline so far in 2018, driven by AT&T’s 13.3-percent drop.	cause_general
In comparison, many of the other companies joining the group have shown strong gains for the year with Netflix rising 91.5 percent, Twitter (TWTR.N) rising 21.7 percent and Alphabet rising 10.8 percent.	cause_general
GRAPHIC: S&P 500 future communications services - reut.rs/2CFLIBk	error
To be sure, passive investors will end up with telecom exposure by default if they invest in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that mirror the new communications index.	distant_expectations_consequences
But many active investors may still ignore telecom stocks, which are typically viewed as defensive investments because of slower, though relatively predictable, growth rates and high dividends.	distant_expectations_consequences
The logo of Santander bank is seen on rental bicycles in the City of London financial district in London September 4, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Toby Melville	error
(Reuters) - Santander UK (SANS_pa.L) said on Monday it had appointed Susan Allen as head of its retail and business banking operations in the United Kingdom.	main
Santander UK, owned by Spain’s Banco Santander (SAN.MC), said Allen would replace Javier San Felix, who is returning to the Santander Group after three years in the role.	main_consequence
Allen, currently head of customer interactions within the bank’s retail division, will start her new role by the end of the year, subject to regulatory approval, the London-based financial services provider said.	distant_expectations_consequences
SEOUL (Reuters) - The chief executive of South Korea’s LG Display (034220.KS), Han Sang-beom, was determined to deliver a strong message when he appeared before 1,000 employees at the firm’s main manufacturing plant last spring.	distant_historical
Less than a year earlier, the company had showered employees with perks and bonuses as profits rolled in, driven by the company’s leadership in LCD screens for TVs, computer monitors and smartphones.	distant_historical
But LG Display had misread the market: Chinese competitors were coming on strong, and by early this year prices for LCD screens were plummeting.	main
The fat profits of 2017 turned into big losses in 2018 - and the company abruptly announced in July that it would slash $2.7 billion in capital spending it had planned through 2020.	cause_general
It did not reveal its total or previous targets but made about $6 billion in capital expenditures in 2017, according to Eikon data.	distant_historical
The company’s troubles stand as a stark example of the risks inherent in hotly competitive technology businesses that require massive capital investment.	distant_evaluation
“It seems that LG Display made a major miscalculation on its LCD business, not accurately judging the timing to pull away when they could see China’s rapid catch-up,” said Lee Won-sik, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities.	main
“We knew from last year LCD prices would go down but we did not expect this big and fast fall,” acknowledged one LG Display official, who, like others in this article, declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media.	distant_evaluation
“Customers had been asking for price cuts, but we didn’t act until it got too late.”	distant_evaluation
PRICES IN FREE-FALL	cause_general
LG Display posted five straight years of strong profits after Han took the helm in 2012, riding a tide of LCD screen orders from Apple Inc (AAPL.O) and strong demand for both phone and TV screens from LG Electronics (066570.KS), which owns more than a third of the display-maker.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: A woman looks at a LG Electronics' organic light-emitting diode (OLED) TV, which is made with LG Display flat screens, at its store in Seoul, South Korea, April 26, 2016.	error
LG Display also began to invest in OLED displays, which unlike LCD screens don’t require backlighting and can deliver more natural-looking colors.	distant_historical
OLED screens also consume less energy and can be bent and folded.	cause_general
But the technology is expensive, and LG Display was earning the vast majority of its revenue from LCDs.	distant_historical
Until its recent cutbacks, it was running eight LCD production lines in South Korea and another in China.	cause_general
While LG Display hummed along, Chinese companies, led by BOE Technology Group Co Ltd (000725.SZ), were pouring huge sums into LCD production.	cause_specific
LG Display Vice Chairman Han Sang-beom smashes a discarded 55-inch LCD panel with a hammer during an event at their factory in Paju, South Korea, April 26, 2018.	error
LG Display/Handout via REUTERS	error
By January 2017, BOE had become the No.	distant_historical
1 supplier of LCDs larger than 9 inches, according to market tracker IHS Markit, taking 22.3 percent of unit shipments versus 21.6 percent for LG Display.	distant_historical
It was the first time a Chinese display maker had taken the top spot.	cause_general
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji/File Photo	error
By early 2018, prices for many types of LCDs were in free-fall.	distant_historical
Prices for 50-inch LCD television panels, for example, slid 32 percent in August versus the same month last year, according to IHS Markit.	cause_general
LG Display’s big South Korean rival, the display unit of Samsung Electronics (005930.KS), had begun pulling back from LCD years earlier, shutting down older LCD production lines in South Korea beginning in 2010, according to a Samsung Display official.	distant_historical
The company now has just two LCD factories in South Korea and one in China.	cause_general
But LG Display was caught flat-footed and is now furiously slashing LCD capacity.	main_consequence
It has closed three LCD production lines since last year and abandoned plans for a new one.	main_consequence
The company in April also rolled out an “emergency management system,” with employees being told to use cheaper flights and cut back on group meals, company sources told Reuters.	distant_historical
Cash flow has become a concern: it was negative 838.2 billion won ($743.93 million) in the second quarter, according to Eikon data, and has been negative for three straight quarters.	cause_general
Three company sources say the company is not planning layoffs for fear of losing talent to China, but some employees are frustrated with cuts in benefits.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Executives are trying to keep the morale up, telling us media reports about a voluntary redundancy program are false,” a company source with knowledge of the matter said.	distant_evaluation
So he donned a pair of goggles, picked up a hammer, and smashed a liquid-crystal display screen to bits.	distant_historical
OLED A GAME CHANGER?	distant_expectations_consequences
LG Display is now betting the house on OLED, and says it can fund $17.6 billion in OLED investments over the next three years.	distant_expectations_consequences
It expects the newer technology to account for 40 percent of revenue by 2020, up from just 10 percent today.	distant_expectations_consequences
As OLED becomes more prevalent, LG Display’s fortunes could turn, analysts say.	distant_expectations_consequences
LG Display’s OLED panels have helped its sibling, LG Electronics, take the lead in high-end televisions.	distant_evaluation
Some analysts believe LG Display has been pressured to supply those panels cheaply, hurting its profitability, though the company denies that is the case.	distant_evaluation
But the OLED market promises to be tough.	distant_expectations_consequences
Samsung boasts that it has been investing in OLED since 2005.	cause_general
BOE is getting into OLED too.	cause_general
LG Display has costly process for durable OLED TVs, but there are no better alternatives, said Ross Young, chief executive of research provider Display Supply Chain Consultants.	distant_evaluation
The symbolism was impossible to miss: LCD panels, the company’s mainstay for years, were being relegated to the industrial dustbin.	distant_evaluation
“LG Display’s current approach is the best solution for the market,” Young said.	distant_evaluation
Son Young-jun, LG Display’s vice president of public relations, said in a statement that the company is the only producer of large-size OLED displays and had “unmatched technological expertise” in OLED.	distant_evaluation
“The potential and outlook ahead is promising,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
LG Display says its OLED division will turn a profit in the third quarter.	distant_expectations_consequences
It also expects LCD prices to stabilize, enabling it to squeeze profits from the older technology until the newer one matures.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Given OLED is our answer and solution to the crisis, there’s nothing else we can do other than tightening our belts and pushing for OLED,” a company official said.	distant_evaluation
Graphic: tmsnrt.rs/2OaszIW	error
The company’s future would depend on a newer technology, organic light-emitting diode, or OLED.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I’ve never seen him do such a thing,” said one company official who was present.	distant_evaluation
“His performance showed a grim determination to weather this crisis.”	distant_evaluation
Yet LG Display’s predicament was in many ways one of its own making.	distant_evaluation
TORONTO/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Kinder Morgan Inc (KMI.N) has hired investment bank TD Securities (TD.TO) to facilitate a potential sale of its Canadian business, which could fetch as much as C$2.4 billion ($1.8 billion), people familiar with the situation told Reuters this week.	main
Last month, a Canadian court overturned approval of the Trans Mountain expansion, saying that Ottawa failed to adequately consider aboriginal concerns.	cause_general
On the flip side though, this makes established pipelines highly prized assets by those operating in the country.	distant_evaluation
At a conference earlier this month in New York, Kinder Morgan Chief Executive Steven Kean indicated his willingness to sell the rest of the Canadian business, noting that the original purpose of these assets was to support the Trans Mountain project.	distant_expectations_consequences
Kinder Morgan bought Terasen Inc in 2005, a deal in which it acquired the Trans Mountain pipeline and dramatically broadened its footprint in Canada.	distant_historical
Kinder Morgan’s remaining Canadian business includes the Edmonton, Alberta and Vancouver Wharves terminal businesses, as well as the Canadian portion of the Cochin pipeline.	cause_general
The unit has earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of about C$200 million, Kean said at the time.	cause_general
The assets, which could be sold separately or in one swoop, are expected to go for a multiple of 10 to 12 times EBITDA, the sources said, taking the total deal value to C$2.4 billion.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bidding for the business is expected to come from midstream companies, private equity firms and infrastructure funds, the sources added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Kinder Morgan would likely keep the assets if it does not get a good price as they generate solid cash flows, the sources added.	distant_expectations_consequences
In a note following the Reuters report, RBC analyst Robert Kwan said “we would view a sale process as positive for Kinder Morgan Canada’s share price.”	distant_evaluation
Should the move succeed, it would mark the exit of the U.S. pipeline giant from Canada, having closed its sale of the Trans Mountain pipeline to the Canadian government for about C$4.5 billion at the end of last month.	distant_expectations_consequences
In 2016, Williams Cos Inc (WMB.N), another U.S. pipeline company, sold its Canadian business.	distant_historical
Enbridge Inc (ENB.TO) said in July it would sell its Canadian natural gas gathering and processing business to Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP (BIP.N) and its institutional partners for about C$4.31 billion.	cause_general
In February, Canadian oil sands producer MEG Energy (MEG.TO) agreed to sell some pipeline and storage assets in Alberta to Wolf Midstream Inc for C$1.61 billion.	distant_historical
After the Reuters report on the hiring of the bank, shares in Kinder Morgan Canada Ltd (KML.TO), which completed its initial public offering just last year, turned positive and jumped 3.7 percent to a three-month high.	cause_general
They ended up 2.1 percent in a flat market.	cause_general
Shares in Houston-based Kinder Morgan closed down 1.3 percent.	cause_general
Spokeswomen for TD and Kinder Morgan declined to comment on the hiring of the investment bank and the valuation.	cause_general
Sources declined to be identified as the process is private.	cause_general
Pipeline companies in Canada have faced opposition from environmental groups and First Nations groups in recent times	distant_evaluation
in getting approval for new projects.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Health insurer Cigna Corp’s (CI.N) $52 billion acquisition of pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts Holding Co has passed U.S. antitrust scrutiny, the companies said on Monday, allowing them to proceed with a combination they say will lead to lower costs by better coordinating pharmacy and medical benefits.	main
CVS spokeswoman Carolyn Castel said the company continues to expect to close its deal late in the third quarter or in the fourth quarter, a forecast it gave investors on Aug. 8 during a conference call.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Justice Department in 2016 successfully blocked a pair of large health insurance mergers it believed would limit competition in the industry.	distant_historical
Those were Aetna’s plan to acquire smaller U.S. health insurer Humana Inc (HUM.N) for $37 billion, and a planned $54 billion combination of insurers Anthem Inc (ANTM.N) and Cigna.	distant_historical
Aetna and Cigna, however, were determined to seek growth through deals while responding to a changing healthcare landscape, eventually targeting mergers with the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs).	distant_evaluation
“We believe these two transactions add more pressure on Humana to move further down the path of vertical integration,” William Blair analyst John Kreger said.	distant_evaluation
“We suspect other health plans will look to follow suit.”	distant_expectations_consequences
FEELING THE PRESSURE	distant_evaluation
Antitrust experts have described the current deals as vertical combinations that present fewer issues than the failed insurer mergers.	distant_evaluation
That view was bolstered after the Justice Department lost its case to stop AT&T’s (T.N) acquisition of media company Time Warner.	distant_evaluation
The department is appealing the decision.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: David Cordani, president and CEO of CIGNA Corp., appears on CNBC at the New York Stock Exchange, (NYSE) in New York, U.S., March 8, 2018.	error
“Everyone is feeling the pressure right now ... to react to disruption in the healthcare industry,” said Brad Haller, a director in West Monroe Partners’ mergers & acquisitions practice.	distant_evaluation
That disruption includes Amazon.com Inc’s (AMZN.O) moves into healthcare.	cause_general
The world’s largest online retailer purchased online pharmacy PillPack, which Wall Street analysts say can help it undercut traditional prescription drug sales.	distant_expectations_consequences
Amazon has also aligned itself with JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM.N) and Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRKa.N) to experiment with new business models for employee healthcare - one of Cigna’s target markets.	cause_general
Cigna’s purchase of Express Scripts comes as PBMs’ role in prescription drug costs has come under scrutiny.	cause_general
The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump has said it is looking at how so-called industry middlemen and pharmacies such as Express Scripts and CVS impact drug costs for U.S. consumers.	distant_evaluation
The administration is looking at implementing a rule that could change or eliminate the use of rebates from drugmakers to PBMs that critics say contribute to higher drug prices.	distant_expectations_consequences
Cigna and Express Scripts said they have already obtained clearances for the deal from departments of insurance in 16 states and are working with regulators in remaining jurisdictions to obtain clearance for the merger.	cause_general
“States could still conduct a public hearing ... though it is very unlikely that they do not align with the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision,” Leerink analyst Ana Gupte said.	distant_evaluation
The companies continue to expect the deal to close by the end of the year, subject to the satisfaction of all closing conditions.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo	error
Cigna shares closed up 1.4 percent at $197.84, while Express Scripts shares closed up 3.7 percent at $95.23.	cause_general
CVS and Aetna shares also rose, closing up 1.5 percent and 1 percent, respectively.	cause_general
Wall Street analysts had expected antitrust approval as the companies have little overlap in their businesses.	distant_evaluation
The decision bodes well for the pending U.S. antitrust review of CVS Health Corp’s (CVS.N) proposed $69 billion acquisition of health insurer Aetna Inc AET.N.	distant_evaluation
The new company will marry Cigna’s business of managing health plans for corporations and the government with Express Scripts’ (ESRX.O) role handling pharmacy benefits for those same customers.	cause_general
Express Scripts also owns specialty pharmacies that distribute pricey drugs.	cause_general
“We are pleased that the Department of Justice has cleared our transaction and that we are another step closer to completing our merger,” Cigna Chief Executive David Cordani said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
The Justice Department review of CVS’s planned purchase of Aetna may conclude this month, but will take longer because of divestitures needed to resolve competitive concerns, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia will auction real estate owned by indebted billionaire Maan al-Sanea and his company starting next month to help repay billions of riyals due to creditors, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.	main
A creditor source said the auction had been delayed because of weakness in the local property market.	distant_evaluation
In March, Etqaan launched the first phase of the auction with around 900 vehicles owned by Saad Group, including trucks, buses, diggers, forklift trucks and golf carts.	distant_historical
That auction raised around 125 million riyals, which went to repay some creditors, including unpaid workers.	distant_historical
Proceeds from upcoming auctions will go to 34 creditors, mostly banks, the sources said.	distant_expectations_consequences
It is unclear whether Sanea, who remains in detention, will be released after his assets are sold.	cause_general
Saad Group, with interests spanning banking to healthcare, defaulted together with Ahmad Hamad al-Gosaibi and Brothers (AHAB) in 2009, leaving banks with unpaid debt of about $22 billion in what was Saudi Arabia’s biggest financial meltdown.	distant_historical
Earlier this year, Reemas, a financial consultancy advising al-Sanea, reached out to some creditors to try to agree to a settlement that could involve swapping creditor debts for real estate assets, but the terms are still under negotiation.	cause_general
Local, regional and international banks eligible for a settlement have claims totaling 16 billion riyals, with international banks such as BNP Paribas (BNPP.PA) and Citi (C.N), and regional lenders such as Mashreq, having claims of over 1 billion riyals each, sources told Reuters previously.	cause_specific
Some observers estimate Saad’s total debt to be between 40 billion and 60 billion riyals.	distant_evaluation
($1 = 3.75 Saudi Riyals)	error
FILE PHOTO: A property belonging to billionaire Maan al-Sanea is seen in Khobar in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province February 26, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Zuhair Al-Traifi/File Photo	error
Sanea, ranked by Forbes in 2007 as one of the world’s 100 richest people, was detained last year for unpaid debts dating back to 2009 when his company, Saad Group, defaulted.	cause_general
His case is separate from the scores of Saudi businessmen and prominent figures who were held on corruption charges last year at Riyadh’s Ritz Carlton hotel, although it touches on similar investor concerns about corporate governance.	cause_general
In what was Saudi Arabia’s longest-running debt dispute, creditors have spent the past nine years pursuing Saad Group, which is based in the Eastern Province, for debt repayment.	cause_specific
Etqaan Alliance, the consortium appointed late last year by a three-judge tribunal to resolve Saad’s debt dispute, will sell the assets over five months at auctions in the Eastern Province, Riyadh and Jeddah, according to two sources familiar with the matter.	main
The first auction - of undeveloped and commercial land plots, a farm, and income-generating residential buildings in Eastern Province’s Khobar and Dammam - will take place in late October, the sources added.	main
One source estimated sale proceeds at one to two billion riyals ($267-$533 million).	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - General Electric Co (GE.N) ousted Chief Executive Officer John Flannery in a surprise move on Monday, replacing him with outsider and board member Larry Culp, and said it would take a roughly $23 billion charge to write off goodwill in its power division, primarily from a large 2015 acquisition.	main
Related Coverage GE's long share price decline claims another casualty	cause_general
Some analysts said that GE Power likely missed financial targets for the third quarter, contributing to Flannery’s ouster.	distant_expectations_consequences
GE, scheduled to report results on Oct. 25, declined to comment.	cause_general
The broad strategies are likely to be similar because the plan laid out by Flannery was made in conjunction with heavy involvement from the board, which included Culp, said Gabelli & Co analyst Justin Bergner.	distant_expectations_consequences
SHADOW OF ITS FORMER SELF	distant_evaluation
GE’s board was unhappy with the pace of the company’s turnaround under Flannery, and when the size of the writedown in the power plant division, which makes electric generating equipment, became apparent, the board was persuaded to seek a new CEO, according to a person familiar with the matter who requested anonymity to discuss confidential deliberations.	distant_evaluation
However, GE will not be changing its announced breakup plan, which calls for spinning off healthcare and shedding its stake in oil services company Baker Hughes (BHGE.N), the source added.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: General Electric CEO John Flannery is seen at the company’s office in New York City, U.S., June 26, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Alwyn Scott	error
Culp indicated that he will tackle the company’s problems aggressively.	distant_expectations_consequences
The struggling energy, health and transportation conglomerate also said it would fall short of its forecast for free cash flow and earnings per share for 2018 due to weakness in its power business, something analysts had expected.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We will move with urgency.	distant_expectations_consequences
... We have a lot of work ahead of us to unlock the value of GE,” he said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
The troubles in the power plant unit have been intensifying, as Reuters reported in July, with the news that one of its most valuable clients, Saudi Arabia, was lining up competitors to bid against GE for lucrative power plant work.	distant_evaluation
GE doubled down on fossil fuels in 2015 under Immelt with the $10.3 billion purchase of French group Alstom SA’s (ALSO.PA) power business.	distant_historical
The deal expanded GE’s exposure to gas, coal and nuclear power.	distant_historical
It added employees, dozens of factories and service centers at a time when GE was trying to cut costs.	distant_historical
“The board is signaling to the market that we are not going to give anyone free reign like we did with Jeff Immelt,” said Morningstar analyst Joshua Aguilar.	distant_expectations_consequences
The power division’s outlook appeared to worsen last month when GE said several power plants equipped with its newest turbines had to be shut down because of a part failure.	distant_evaluation
Changing CEOs “won’t fix short-term problems at power, but Larry, as an outsider, will be able to make the difficult decisions on cost,” said Scott Davis, an analyst at Melius Research in New York.	distant_expectations_consequences
“GE is bloated and its culture is destroyed.”	distant_evaluation
GE shares jumped 7 percent to close at $12.09 as investors bet that Culp could re-energize the GE brand and more quickly transform its portfolio.	cause_general
Lawrence Culp, chairman and CEO of General Electric (GE) is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 1, 2018.	error
PRNewsFoto/T.	error
Rowe Price Group, Inc./Handout via REUTERS	error
Davis said the stock price has probably already adjusted to expectations of no contribution from power.	distant_evaluation
A slimmed down General Electric - a 126-year-old conglomerate that was once the most valuable U.S. corporation and a global symbol of American business power — will focus on jet engines, power plants and renewable energy.	cause_general
In June, GE lost its spot in the blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI after over a century.	distant_historical
“Investors grew impatient with the lack of improvement and with the sheer scale of the problems uncovered.	distant_evaluation
However, these problems were not created under [Flannery’s] tenure,” CFRA analyst Jim Corridore said in a note.	distant_evaluation
“The market seems to be welcoming a change in leadership but the new CEO will be facing many of the same problems.”	distant_expectations_consequences
GE said the power division’s goodwill balance is about $23 billion and the impairment charge would eliminate most of it.	distant_expectations_consequences
The stock was the top percentage gainer on the S&P 500 .SPX.	cause_general
The non-cash charge primarily relates to GE’s acquisition of power assets from Alstom in 2015, GE said.	distant_evaluation
GE’s long stock slide means the once-largest U.S. industrial company is now only sixth in terms of market capitalization, behind Boeing Co (BA.N), 3M Co (MMM.N), Honeywell International Inc (HON.N), United Technologies Corp (UTX.N) and others.	cause_general
(For grapchic on GE stock performance, click reut.rs/2Isclc1)(For graphic on the largest U.S. industrial companies, click tmsnrt.rs/2IA3DJ7)	error
The shares had more than halved since Flannery, a three-decade GE veteran, became CEO in August 2017 to replace Jeff Immelt, who had led GE since 2001.	cause_general
With a market capitalization below $100 billion as of Friday, GE was worth less than a fifth of its peak value a generation ago.	cause_general
GE Power’s falling profits last year forced GE to slash its overall profit outlook and cut its dividend for only the second time since the Great Depression.	distant_historical
GE’s board, meeting in the last few days, unanimously picked Culp as its new CEO.	main
Culp, 55, who was named to GE’s board in February, was CEO of industrial equipment supplier Danaher Corp (DHR.N) from 2000 to 2014, helping grow the company into a broader conglomerate through a series of acquisitions, while also growing earnings.	distant_historical
WUXI, China/LONDON (Reuters) - With smart cancer diagnostics, one-stop-shop diabetes kits and AI systems to improve ambulance pick-ups for patients with chest pain, AstraZeneca (AZN.L) aims to move from simply supplying drugs to become a broad healthcare provider in China.	main
The company’s underlying conviction is that it has the right medicines across chronic diseases like cancer, diabetes and respiratory disorders to win in China.	distant_evaluation
Soriot believes that can keep AstraZeneca growing in a pivotal market in the coming years, even though annual growth is likely to slow to nearer 15 percent from the breakneck 33 percent seen in the first half of 2018.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company has moved quickly to exploit China’s new-found willingness to use innovative Western drugs.	distant_evaluation
Last year it won a record-fast approval for lung cancer pill Tagrisso, which is designed for patients with a genetic mutation that is particularly common in China.	distant_historical
It hopes to get a green light before the end of 2018 — well before U.S. approval — for a new anemia drug called roxadustat being developed with FibroGen (FGEN.O).	distant_expectations_consequences
China-first approvals for drugs like roxadustat and Elunate, a colorectal cancer treatment from Eli Lilly (LLY.N) and Hutchison China MediTech (HCM.L), mark a reversal of the historical pattern of Chinese patients getting new drugs years after their launch in the West.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
There is, however, a trade-off.	distant_evaluation
Multinationals that relied in the past on selling older drugs at premium prices in China are seeing prices slashed.	cause_general
AstraZeneca took a 50 percent haircut last year on the price of Iressa, its predecessor to Tagrisso.	distant_historical
The logo of the British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is seen at the company's China Commercial Innovation Centre (CCIC) in Wuxi, Jiangsu province, China, September 15, 2018.	error
“The government wants to give access to better medicines to more people,” said Soriot, who admitted that pressure on prices had come sooner than he expected.	distant_evaluation
“To some extent the economy is growing so there is more money to do that, but there is not enough money ...	distant_evaluation
They have to make room in the budget for innovation.”	distant_evaluation
“UNMET NEEDS”	distant_evaluation
With 1.4 billion people, around 18 percent of the world’s population, China has more cases of cancer and diabetes than any other nation, fueled by fast food, smoking and pollution, global health data show.	cause_general
“There are enormous unmet medical needs in China, particularly in oncology, and 30 percent of the world’s cancer patients are in China,” Christian Hogg, Chief Executive of Hutchison China MediTech, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“There is almost an inevitability that the Chinese pharmaceutical industry is going to grow to be the largest in the world in due course.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The firm, also known as Chi-Med, is working with AstraZeneca on a novel oncology drug targeting kidney, lung and stomach tumors.	cause_general
AstraZeneca is bolstering its sales force to meet this growing demand.	distant_evaluation
It has around 7,500 sales staff in China and is looking to push into smaller cities — boosting volume and helping offset lower prices.	cause_general
REUTERS/Adam Jourdan	error
It aims to get more drugs onto a list of medicines covered by basic insurance schemes — the national drug reimbursement list — and onto fast-track approvals, Soriot said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The list was most recently updated last year after an eight-year hiatus.	distant_historical
A drug joint venture, Dizal Pharmaceutical, backed by the China State Development & Investment Corporation, will promote Chinese-discovered drugs — another priority for Beijing.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s the first time a government fund works with a foreign company in researching new drugs for Chinese patients,” Leon Wang, AstraZeneca’s China head, said in an interview at the firm’s Shanghai headquarters.	distant_evaluation
“So we like that.”	distant_evaluation
Wang added there were still many patients who went undiagnosed or untreated, and that the firm’s aggressive expansion, even to “village clinics”, was helping make the difference against rivals tapping growing demand.	distant_evaluation
“Chronic disease, oncology drugs, specialty care, rare disease, these will all explode I think,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
(For a graphic on 'Booming China sales' click tmsnrt.rs/2pbCLGo)	error
Tech tie-ups with the likes of Alibaba (BABA.N) and Tencent (0700.HK) will not directly lift the British group’s drug sales, since they are not specific for any one company’s products and in many cases will be low-cost or free.	distant_expectations_consequences
But it will expand the overall market and represents a soft power play that dovetails neatly with Beijing’s support for Internet-based healthcare systems to alleviate a lack of doctors, overcrowding and poor grassroots healthcare.	main
“Down the line we benefit, our products benefit, because we have better relationships with doctors and hospital managers and also because we diagnose more patients and they get better treated,” Chief Executive Pascal Soriot told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
Surrounded by the latest gizmos at the World Internet of Things Exposition in Wuxi, eastern China, Soriot says he wants to use the power of artificial intelligence, robots and apps to help transform diagnosis and disease management.	distant_expectations_consequences
AstraZeneca has been on a tear in China, more than doubling its sales since 2012, helped by regulatory reforms to fast-track new drugs, and today generates 18 percent of revenue in the country — a far higher proportion than rivals.	cause_general
Yet Soriot is anxious to do more to keep doctors and government officials on-side in the world’s second-biggest drugs market, as soaring demand strains the state insurance system and squeezes medicine prices.	distant_evaluation
(This September 26 story corrects glass factory location in paragraph 12)	cause_general
“The theory is you turn (imports) off, the jobs come back.	distant_evaluation
That’s not really true...	distant_evaluation
The buildings don’t exist.	distant_evaluation
The people don’t exist.	distant_evaluation
The machinery does not exist,” to make the sorts of furniture that now gets imported, said Alex Bernhardt Jr., chief executive and the company founder’s great grandson.	distant_evaluation
What the company needs now, executives say, is the open markets and steady economy that have allowed it to grow its workforce from below 800 at the end of the 2007-2009 recession to almost 1,500 today - partly on the basis of exports to China.	distant_evaluation
DIFFERENT COMPANY	cause_general
That growth has been largely driven by demand for more customized, higher end furniture.	cause_general
In expanding, the 129-year-old company has been hiring not only factory workers, but also designers, marketing experts and other professionals.	cause_general
In all, it is a different firm from what it was three decades ago when it first began dividing product lines between the United States and Asia.	cause_general
By Howard Schneider	error
The sewing lines at Bernhard Furniture Company which where skilled craft jobs are growing without the help of tariffs, and company officials say they are pressed to fill open positions is shown in Lenoir, North Carolina, U.S., August 15, 2018.	cause_general
REUTERS/Howard Schneider	error
Economists say the same is true across much of U.S. manufacturing.	distant_evaluation
To invest and hire more workers, executives would need certainty, for example, that consumers would prefer U.S.-made products at a potentially higher price.	distant_evaluation
They would need confidence that tariffs would last beyond the Trump administration and that production could not be shifted to other more cost-competitive countries.	distant_evaluation
Even then, there may be little incentive to go back to old product lines for industries that have changed dramatically because of globalization.	distant_evaluation
Across the Rust Belt and the former factory towns of the south, the transformation is apparent.	distant_evaluation
In Buffalo, an old steel mill is now a solar panel factory, and a retail goods manufacturer now houses an office and restaurant park.	distant_anecdotal
Near Dayton, Ohio, a shuttered GM plant has reopened as a Chinese-owned auto glass company.	distant_anecdotal
Abandoned factories throughout North Carolina have landed on the Environmental Protection Agency’s list of “brownfield” sites that need cleanup.	distant_evaluation
THOMASVILLE, N.C. (Reuters) - In a town where a 30-feet tall chair is the chief landmark, and which is synonymous with a U.S. furniture industry decimated over the years by imports from China, many greet the possibility of tariffs on Chinese goods with a shrug.	distant_evaluation
Some companies are considering moving production from China as a result of the tariffs, but the jobs are unlikely to head home.	distant_expectations_consequences
Illinois-based CCTY Bearing, for example, said it planned to move U.S.-bound production from Zhenjiang, China, to a new plant near Mumbai in India to keep labor costs down.	distant_expectations_consequences
JLab Audio’s China-made Bluetooth products are not being taxed yet, but its chief executive Win Cramer had been scouting for suppliers in Vietnam and Mexico.	distant_evaluation
“I would love to build products onshore, but consumers have proven time and time again that “Made in America” isn’t as valuable a statement as it once was,” Cramer said.	distant_evaluation
“They make decisions based on the cost.”	distant_evaluation
The price of, say, its Bluetooth earbud would jump from $20 to as much as $50 if it was made in the United States, Cramer said, far more than what tariffs would add to the cost of imports.	distant_expectations_consequences
To be sure, early reactions suggest that foreign companies that make U.S.-bound goods in China may move some of that production to the United States.	distant_evaluation
Still, countries such as Vietnam may ultimately benefit the most from Trump’s tariffs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
Japanese construction and mining equipment maker Komatsu Ltd < 6301.T > has said it has already shifted some of its production of parts for U.S.-built excavators from China.	cause_general
No wonder.	distant_evaluation
Part of that production moved to the United States, but some also went to Mexico and Japan.	cause_general
In South Korea, LG Electronics (066570.KS) and its rival Samsung Electronics (005930.KS) are considering moving parts of U.S.-bound refrigerator and air conditioner production to Mexico, Vietnam or back home, but not to the United States, according to company sources and local media.	cause_general
STEADY RECOVERY	distant_evaluation
The responses to Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum show how such steps create both winners and losers.	distant_evaluation
Producers such as U.S. Steel and Century Aluminum have said they will add at least several hundred jobs as a result of the higher prices they can charge.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mid-Continental Nail, however, laid off 130 workers because of those higher steel prices, and furniture parts maker Leggett & Platt (LEG.N) has warned that rising metal prices would prompt it to shift production abroad.	distant_expectations_consequences
So far, Washington has imposed duties on $250 billion of Chinese imports and Trump has threatened to slap tariffs on all Chinese goods.	cause_specific
Many economists project new tariffs would on balance either slow down hiring or cause job losses in a manufacturing sector where employment has grown by 10 percent over the past eight years without special protection.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Graphic: tmsnrt.rs/2Q1AFUW)	error
The furniture industry, among the hardest hit by Chinese imports, has added 43,000 jobs since its employment hit a low of 350,000 in 2011, helped by the recovering housing market and strong consumer demand.	cause_general
Of three once bustling Thomasville furniture plants in the city limits, one is being demolished and cleared for parkland, another may become the site of a new police station, and a third is being converted into apartments.	distant_expectations_consequences
Industry officials say skilled upholsterers and other workers are hard to find, echoing the Federal Reserve’s concern about the impact of worker shortages on the U.S. economy.	distant_evaluation
In Thomasville, few expect that tariffs will bring furniture manufacturing back to its heyday, nor does the community need it, says city manager Kelly Craver, whose parents worked in the furniture and textile industries.	distant_evaluation
Since the recession, Thomasville has become a residential hub for growing nearby cities such as Greensboro and Charlotte.	cause_general
It also has its own mix of manufacturing and white collar jobs.	cause_general
Mohawk Industries (MHK.N) recently expanded its Thomasville laminate flooring facility while the Old Dominion Freight Line transportation firm (ODFL.O) and the fast-growing Cook Out burger chain have corporate headquarters there.	cause_general
“We, for the very first time in this city’s existence, are going to have a diversified economy,” Craver said.	distant_expectations_consequences
President Donald Trump is threatening to levy tariffs of up to 25 percent on $500 billion of goods imported from China each year, including roughly $20 billion of furniture, as a way to bring back hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs lost to China and other low-cost competitors.	cause_specific
Yet, the transformation of U.S. industries since China’s emergence as the world’s low-cost producer almost two decades ago means many no longer directly compete with Chinese imports, so tariffs may not translate so easily into more U.S. jobs.	main
At family-owned Bernhardt Furniture in Lenoir, some 90 miles west of Thomasville, executives say it would take about $30 million in capital investment - some 10 percent of annual sales - to resurrect standard wood furniture lines now mainly made in countries like China and Vietnam.	distant_expectations_consequences
That is too much to commit based on a policy that a future administration could reverse.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - United Technologies Corp (UTX.N) is exploring a sale of its Chubb Fire & Security division for more than $3 billion, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.	main
United Technologies, maker of Pratt & Whitney engines, Carrier air conditioners and Otis elevators, has a market capitalization of approximately $113 billion.	cause_general
Chubb, headquartered in Britain, provides fire safety and security solutions for businesses and organizations around the world, although its business is predominantly in Europe.	cause_general
Hayes said at an investor conference this month that United Technologies planned to close its pending $23 billion acquisition of aerospace parts maker Rockwell Collins COL.N by the end of this month.	distant_expectations_consequences
That deal has been held up by China delaying regulatory approval, amid an escalating trade row with the United States.	cause_general
Investors have increasingly shunned sprawling industrial conglomerates, forcing peers such as General Electric Co (GE.N) and Honeywell International Inc (HON.N) to also announce the sale or spinout of major divisions.	distant_evaluation
Activist investor Bill Ackman’s hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP and Daniel Loeb’s hedge fund Third Point LLC have been putting pressure on United Technologies to break up into three focused, standalone businesses.	distant_evaluation
(This version of the story corrects year of Chubb acquisition from 2013 to 2003 in third paragraph)	cause_general
FILE PHOTO - United Technologies Chairman and CEO Greg Hayes gives an interview to CNBC on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 5, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid	error
On Sept. 14, United Technologies CEO Greg Hayes said the company will announce a decision within 60 days about whether to break up.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company’s main business lines are comprised of aerospace engines, elevators and building equipment such as air conditioners.	cause_general
Chubb was acquired by United Technologies for about $1 billion in 2003, and is now part of the company’s climate, controls and security division.	cause_general
It has been playing catch-up for market share with rivals Securitas AB (SECUb.ST) and Tyco International Ltd. Tyco was acquired by Johnson Controls International Plc (JCI.N) two years ago for $16.5 billion.	cause_general
United Technologies, based in Farmington, Connecticut, has hired Bank of America Corp (BAC.N) to run an auction for Chubb, the sources said, asking not to be identified because the matter is confidential and cautioning that no deal is certain.	cause_general
United Technologies did not respond to a request for comment, while Bank of America declined to comment.	cause_general
NEW YORK/CHICAGO (Reuters) - Archer Daniels Midland Co has sold unusually high volumes of ethanol into the Chicago market since late last year as export markets dried up, driving down prices in the U.S. Midwest and angering the company’s rivals, according to traders and regulatory data.	main
Ethanol futures prices traded on the Chicago Board of Trade late last month fell to $1.21 per gallon, lowest in over a decade.	cause_general
Ethanol in Chicago cash markets, meanwhile, were about $1.28 per gallon, just above a low of $1.24 from December, traders told Reuters.	cause_general
The heavy selling by ADM has led traders who have lost money on the slumping ethanol market to complain to S&P Global Platts, which provides benchmark pricing for the physical ethanol contract at different U.S. delivery points including Chicago.	cause_general
In July, Platts hosted an ethanol pricing methodology workshop in Houston at which senior traders from the largest U.S. ethanol trading shops expressed anger about ADM’s influence on the market, according to several traders who attended.	distant_evaluation
“It’s one person’s view of the market,” said one trader who attended the meeting.	distant_anecdotal
“Traders are angry ... and they blame ADM,” another trader said.	distant_anecdotal
Platts said the company is conducting ongoing discussions about evolving its pricing methodology, including feedback from the July conference.	distant_evaluation
“We are still evaluating the feedback and continuing bilateral conversations with market participants who were not able to attend,” the company said in a written statement.	distant_evaluation
ADM can produce roughly 1.6 billion gallons of ethanol annually, about 10 percent of U.S. capacity.	cause_general
Despite its massive production, it has often been a buyer on the cash market to supplement its long-term supply deals or to support a market view, dealers said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: The world's largest corn mill of global grain company Archer Daniels Midland is pictured in Decatur, Illinois, U.S., March 16, 2015.	error
The company has told investors that a sustained trade war with China could hurt sales.	distant_expectations_consequences
China, considered the top growth market for U.S. ethanol exports, imposed tariffs of about 70 percent on imports of American biofuel - all but halting shipments there.	cause_general
BIG DELIVERIES	distant_evaluation
The commodity giant has also been using the futures market to show that it could deliver additional volumes in and around the Chicago hub.	distant_evaluation
The company can easily ship to Chicago from its large ethanol plants in Iowa.	distant_evaluation
On the Chicago Board of Trade, ADM registered all 579 ethanol contracts for delivery as of Tuesday, each contract representing 29,000 gallons – or enough for about one rail tanker car - the most in the history of the contract, according to CME Group data.	cause_general
The registrations were a signal to the over 20 other companies also registered to participate in CBOT ethanol deliveries - which include Shell, Green Plains Inc, Vitol and Mercuria - that ADM has an abundant supply of biofuel in storage, to tap and sell against the futures contract.	distant_evaluation
“We don’t really know or understand what they are doing,” said one CEO of a publicly-traded ethanol company.	distant_anecdotal
One trader noted that ADM was short 400,000 barrels last week on the Chicago Board of Trade.	distant_anecdotal
As a major ethanol producer, they are long physical gallons so having a short position in futures as a hedge against physical price declines is not unusual, traders said.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Karl Plume/File Photo	error
The Illinois-based global commodities powerhouse, a major ethanol producer, accounted for roughly 61 percent of the 9.5 million barrels sold at the Chicago hub between November and August, according to the data reviewed by Reuters.	main
Previously, ADM had been a regular buyer: In September and October of last year, for example, ADM bought 810,000 barrels, 32 percent of the 2.495 million total trades in the Chicago hub during that stretch, according to the data.	distant_historical
ADM’s shift came amid an upheaval in the domestic ethanol market as U.S. demand flatlined and export markets, including China and Brazil, were cut off due in part to the effects of President Donald Trump’s widening trade disputes.	cause_general
With growth in export markets slowing, U.S. ethanol inventories swelled to a record.	cause_general
Ethanol traders say ADM is saturating the domestic market, anchoring prices and bleeding out smaller producers less equipped to manage through the tough times.	distant_evaluation
ADM spokeswoman Jackie Anderson, when asked about the shift in the company’s strategy, said ADM does not comment on the specifics of its commercial activity.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) said on Thursday it would stop producing its Beetle compact car in 2019, ending a model that looked backward to the 1960s counterculture as the automaker prepares for a leap toward a future of mass-market electric cars.	main
U.S. consumers looking for a small Volkswagen vehicle overwhelmingly prefer the Jetta sedan, or a Tiguan compact sport utility vehicle.	distant_evaluation
The Jetta, Tiguan and Beetle are built for North America and other markets at a factory in Mexico.	cause_general
The end of the Beetle comes at a turning point for Volkswagen.	distant_evaluation
The German automaker’s last three years have been rocked by the fallout from a scandal caused by its admitted cheating on diesel emissions tests.	cause_general
Now, Volkswagen is gearing up to launch a wave of electric vehicles to appeal to a new generation of environmentally conscious consumers - children and grandchildren of the 1960s Beetle enthusiasts.	distant_expectations_consequences
In a statement announcing the end of the Beetle, Hinrich Woebcken, head of Volkswagen of America, said that as the company ramps up its electrification strategy, there are no plans to replace the Beetle.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, his statement did not rule that out someday.	distant_expectations_consequences
He noted the company’s I.D.	distant_expectations_consequences
Buzz, a prototype for a 21st Century reincarnation of the microbus.	distant_expectations_consequences
The automaker has said it intends to put a vehicle similar to the I.D.	distant_expectations_consequences
The original VW Beetle, developed in the 1930s, made a journey from a product identified with Adolf Hitler to a symbol of Germany’s rebirth as a democratic, industrial powerhouse after World War Two.	distant_evaluation
Buzz into production as an electric vehicle.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company said two special Beetle models will join the final lineup - Final Edition SE and Final Edition SEL - in the United States and would offer driver-assistance technology.	distant_expectations_consequences
In the 1960s, the Beetle was a small-is-beautiful icon of the postwar baby boom generation.	distant_historical
Volkswagen discontinued U.S. sales of the “bug” in 1979, but continued production for Mexico and Latin America.	cause_general
In the mid-1990s, at a time when Volkswagen was struggling to rekindle sales in the United States, then-Chief Executive Ferdinand Piech pushed to revive and modernize the distinctive Beetle design pioneered by his grandfather, Ferdinand Porsche.	distant_historical
The result was a crescent-shaped car called the “New Beetle,” launched in 1998, which offered playful touches such as a built-in flower vase.	distant_historical
The New Beetle was a hit during its early years, with sales of more than 80,000 in the United States in 1999, but recently the car’s U.S. sales have suffered along with most other small cars.	cause_specific
Overall, VW has sold about 500,000 Beetles globally since 1998, the company said.	cause_general
Volkswagen sold a total of 11,151 Beetles in the United States through the first eight months of 2018, down 2.2 percent from the same period a year earlier.	cause_general
LONDON (Reuters) - Unilever (ULVR.L) (UNc.AS) executives scrapped plans to move the company headquarters to the Netherlands on Friday in the face of a shareholder revolt, keeping one of Britain’s most valuable businesses in London ahead of Brexit.	main
Unilever’s U-turn comes at a sensitive time for the British government, which is battling to protect jobs and investment as Prime Minister Theresa May fights for her proposed divorce plan from the European Union.	distant_evaluation
“The UK is one of the best places in the world to grow a business, and our modern Industrial Strategy commits us to being an open and competitive economy and a great place to locate global headquarters,” Business Secretary Greg Clark said.	distant_evaluation
Even with a single corporate entity domiciled in the Netherlands, Unilever was keeping two of its three business units in Britain, allowing it to maintain its UK staff of 7,300.	cause_general
In the Netherlands, the decision has triggered political fallout for Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte over his unpopular proposal to scrap a withholding tax on dividends that was seen as helping to woo Unilever.	main_consequence
Related Coverage Abandoned by Unilever, Dutch prime minister forced to reconsider tax plan	main_consequence
He said on Friday the government was reconsidering the plan.	distant_evaluation
Deputy Finance Minister Menno Snel said the Dutch cabinet was meeting to discuss the consequences.	distant_evaluation
“We would have liked to have seen this turn out differently,” he told reporters.	distant_evaluation
HARD SELL	distant_evaluation
Unilever’s exit from the FTSE would have forced funds mandated to track the index to sell their shares.	distant_expectations_consequences
The climbdown came just three weeks before planned votes on the proposal and is a victory for shareholders who opposed a change which would have removed the maker of Marmite, Dove soap and Ben & Jerry's ice cream from the benchmark FTSE 100 index .FTSE.	distant_evaluation
That may have pressured the price for the remaining shareholders, some of whom worried that shares in the new Unilever would be less liquid.	distant_expectations_consequences
The plan’s highest hurdle was that it needed backing of a majority of UK shareholders, holding at least 75 percent of the shares.	distant_evaluation
Those two conditions meant that small shareholders, often overlooked, could have swung the vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
As such, a number of independent investors holding their shares in nominee accounts had contacted their administrators in recent days to make adjustments needed to vote themselves, according to two trading platforms.	cause_general
The Investor Forum, which works to escalate investor	cause_general
concerns to companies, said it worked with over 20 institutions on this issue.	cause_general
“This demonstrates the value of asset managers actively engaging with their investee companies,” said Rupert Krefting, head of corporate governance and stewardship, at M&G Investments, which opposed the proposal.	distant_evaluation
Unilever took the unusual step of putting a full-page advert in the British press to try to sell the idea to skeptical investors, and executives gave a round of interviews last week to make their point.	cause_general
The logo of Unilever is seen at the headquarters in Rotterdam, Netherlands August 21, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw	error
“We are pleased they have abandoned the plan to ‘go Dutch’,” said GAM portfolio manager Ali Miremadi, who intended to vote against the move.	distant_evaluation
But on Friday Unilever recognized that the proposal had not received support from a significant group of shareholders.	cause_specific
“The board will now consider its next steps and will continue to engage with our shareholders,” Dekkers said, adding Unilever will proceed with the plan to cancel its Dutch preference shares.	distant_expectations_consequences
Earlier this week, influential proxy advisory firm PIRC recommended shareholders vote against the move.	cause_specific
Another service, IVIS - the corporate governance research service of the Investment Association - issued a “red top” recommendation on the move on Friday, its strongest level of concern.	cause_specific
Sources said Unilever saw the writing on the wall.	distant_evaluation
“It’s always common for a vote to be pulled when it’s going to lose,” said Tim Bush, head of governance and financial analysis at PIRC.	distant_evaluation
WHAT NEXT	distant_evaluation
Unilever’s Anglo-Dutch structure dates back to 1929 when British soap maker Lever Brothers combined with Dutch margarine company Margarine Unie.	distant_historical
Unilever sold its margarine and spreads business earlier this year to KKR (KKR.N).	distant_historical
The company’s board on Friday said it still believes that simplifying its dual-headed structure is the best choice for the long term.	distant_evaluation
“Now the company can put its focus into the core job – driving long-term shareholder value.”	distant_expectations_consequences
For now, investors are likely to focus on the company’s operational performance.	distant_evaluation
It will report third-quarter results on 18 October.	distant_expectations_consequences
Unilever’s London-listed shares were down 0.6 percent at 1232 GMT, while its Dutch shares were roughly flat.	cause_general
The biggest performance drivers currently are U.S. interest rates and difficulties in emerging markets, particularly related to currencies, said Liberum analyst Robert Waldschmidt.	distant_evaluation
“This change should not really affect the group’s near-term operation, although it may lead to a faster pace for CEO succession planning,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
CEO Polman will mark his 10th anniversary as CEO in January, and speculation about succession has swirled for the last year.	distant_evaluation
Unilever was advised by its corporate brokers, UBS and Deutsche Bank, and its legal adviser, Linklaters.	cause_general
Unilever’s board, led by Chairman Marijn Dekkers and fellow Dutchman Paul Polman, the chief executive, agreed to scrap the plan during a call early on Friday after it became clear that it could fall short of the approval needed, a source familiar with the matter said.	main
Unilever had decided to collapse its Anglo-Dutch structure following a review sparked by last year’s failed $143 billion takeover approach by Kraft-Heinz (KHC.O).	distant_evaluation
The stated aim was to make it more efficient and agile in a consumer market rocked by e-commerce, social media and upstart rivals.	distant_evaluation
But at least 10 shareholders, which collectively own around 12 percent of Unilever PLC, had publicly opposed the move.	cause_specific
They were worried about the effective forced selling of their shares with no premium, uncertainty around the future tax treatment of Dutch dividends and a perception that the move was partly aimed at securing greater takeover protection under Dutch law.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Papa John’s International Inc (PZZA.O), the world’s third-largest pizza delivery company, has reached out to potential acquirers to ask them to submit offers, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.	main
Papa John’s declined to comment.	cause_general
Reuters first reported last month that the company had hired Bank of America Corp (BAC.N) and Lazard Ltd (LAZ.N) to prepare the ground for a sale.	cause_general
Papa John’s shares ended trading on Wednesday up 8.5 percent at $50.14, giving the company a market value of close to $1.6 billion.	cause_general
Separately, Schnatter on Wednesday denied a CNBC report that said he had reached out to private equity firms about making an offer for Papa John’s.	distant_evaluation
“Any such report about a potential transaction involving Mr Schnatter is totally and completely false.	distant_evaluation
It is unfortunate that CNBC published this false story without first contacting Mr Schnatter to obtain the true facts,” a spokesman for Schnatter said in an emailed statement.	distant_evaluation
A CNBC spokesman said that the business news TV channel stood by its reporting.	distant_evaluation
Papa John’s has adopted a so-called poison pill defense to discourage a hostile takeover.	distant_evaluation
Schnatter sued the pizza chain’s board and chief executive at the end of August to stop what he described as “the irreparable harm” they are causing the company, according to a court filing.	cause_general
Last month, Papa John’s posted a second-quarter comparable sales decline of 6.1 percent and cut its sales forecast, citing fallout from the company’s split with Schnatter.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO - The Papa John's store in Westminster, Colorado, U.S. August 1, 2017.	error
Negative publicity surrounding Schnatter depressed July traffic in North America, the company said at the time, noting it was hard to predict how long and how badly that would affect sales.	distant_evaluation
Papa John’s has more than 5,000 locations worldwide, mostly franchised restaurants.	cause_general
Papa John’s Chief Executive Officer Steve Ritchie has vowed to move beyond the fight with Schnatter with a new advertising and marketing campaign, while also removing Schnatter’s image from company promotions.	distant_expectations_consequences
Two franchisee associations working with the company have expressed support for its strategy.	distant_evaluation
Ritchie, previously Papa John’s president, took over as CEO in January.	distant_historical
Schnatter came under fire in November for criticizing the National Football League’s leadership over national anthem protests by players.	distant_historical
Dealmaking in the restaurant sector is heating up.	distant_evaluation
Arby’s-owner Inspire Brands Inc said on Tuesday it would buy Sonic Corp SONC.O for about $1.57 billion in cash, adding more than 3,600 drive-in restaurants to its portfolio that includes brands such as Buffalo Wild Wings and Rusty Taco.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Rick Wilking	error
Papa John’s has come under pressure by founder John Schnatter, who owns about 30 percent of the company.	cause_general
He resigned as chairman in July following reports that he had used a racial slur on a media training conference call.	cause_specific
Since then, Schnatter has been seeking ways to regain control.	cause_general
Papa John’s sent out information this week about an auction to sell itself to other companies and private equity firms, and expects to receive first-round bids by the end of October, the sources said.	main
There is no certainty of a sale, and Papa John’s could also explore an alternative deal, such as receiving an investment, one of the sources added.	distant_evaluation
The sources asked not to be identified because the matter was confidential.	cause_general
LONDON (Reuters) - Struggling British department store chain Debenhams is reviewing its options, including a possible legal procedure that could see it close more stores, it said on Monday.	main
Debenhams, which employs around 27,000 people globally, said in June it might sell non-core assets, including its Danish business, to bolster its finances and in July denied it was facing a cash crisis over supplier insurance.	cause_general
The group is in the second year of a turnaround plan under Chief Executive Sergio Bucher, a former Amazon executive, focused on closing up to 10 stores, downsizing 30 others and renegotiating leases and rents on 25 stores up for renewal over the next five years.	main
It is also trying to cut promotions and improve its online service.	main
However, progress has been hampered by a squeeze on UK consumers’ budgets, a shift in spending away from fashion towards holidays and entertainment, and intense online competition.	cause_specific
Those trends have particularly damaged the department store sector.	distant_evaluation
BHS went bust in 2016, House of Fraser was bought out of administration last month by Mike Ashley’s Sports Direct and even market leader John Lewis has warned on profit.	cause_general
‘CHALLENGING MARKET’	distant_evaluation
“The market environment remains challenging and underlying trends deteriorated through the summer months,” said Bucher.	distant_evaluation
“Nevertheless the product and format improvements we have tested are gaining traction and we are ready to scale up some of our strategic activity ahead of peak (selling season).”	distant_evaluation
Debenhams said it expected to report a 2017-18 pre-exceptional pretax profit of around 33 million pounds, within the current market range of 31-36.5 million pounds, and year-end net debt of about 320 million pounds, in line with guidance and retaining significant headroom on the firm’s medium term facilities of 520 million pounds.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Debenham's signs are seen in central London, Britain June 27, 2017.	error
It said the early weeks of the new season had shown “more positive trends.”	distant_evaluation
The stock was down 1.7 pence at 10.9 pence at 1345 GMT, valuing the business at about 135 million pounds.	cause_general
REUTERS/Toby Melville/File Photo	error
Shares in the retailer, which has issued three profit warnings this year, plunged to a new low after it widened the remit of adviser KPMG to include “longer-term options” such as a possible Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA).	cause_general
CVAs allow retailers to avoid insolvency or administration by offloading unwanted stores and securing reduced rents on others.	cause_general
They have been adopted by British groups including fashion chain New Look, floor coverings retailer Carpetright, mother-and-baby goods company Mothercare and most recently home improvements chain Homebase.	cause_general
Debenhams shares plunged as much as 19.5 percent to a new low of 10.34 pence on the news, despite the company saying it would meet profit and debt forecasts for its 2017-18 fiscal year	cause_general
“The board continues to work with its advisers on longer term options, which include strengthening our balance sheet and reviewing non-core assets,” said Chairman Ian Cheshire.	distant_evaluation
“This activity is in order to maximise value for shareholders and protect other stakeholders, including our employees.”	distant_expectations_consequences
PARIS (Reuters) - BNP Paribas (BNPP.PA), France’s largest listed bank, beat second-quarter profit forecasts on Wednesday as its global business offset a sharp fixed income trading fall and domestic weakness.	main
BNP said the weakness in fixed-income trading was due to certain factors in the European market, such as persistently low interest rates.	cause_specific
The corporate and investment banking division was also hit by a weaker dollar.	cause_specific
While low interest rates have hit parts of its investment banking business, they have conversely buoyed other businesses such as consumer lending and life insurance.	cause_specific
“Revenue driven by the specialized businesses increased in the context of economic growth in Europe, despite an unfavorable exchange effect and less favorable financial markets than in the second quarter of 2017,” BNP Paribas chief executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Solid economic growth in the United States also lifted BancWest’s profits.	cause_specific
Revenue from the U.S. bank rose 22 percent in U.S. dollar terms, or 12 percent when translated into euros.	cause_specific
The strong performance at the international financial services arm also mitigated weakness in BNP Paribas’ French retail bank, where revenues fell during the quarter.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: A BNP Paribas logo is seen at a bank in Paris, France, April 6, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier	error
A surge in BNP’s international financial services business, including consumer lending, insurance and its U.S. bank BancWest, helped it recover from a weak first quarter when net profit plunged to 1.57 billion euros ($1.84 billion).	cause_specific
Although second quarter net profit fell 0.1 percent to 2.39 billion euros from 2.4 billion euros a year before, this was above a median profit of 2.07 billion euros from four analysts polled by consultancy Inquiry Financial for Reuters.	cause_specific
Group revenue rose 2.5 percent year-on-year to 11.21 billion euros, compared with a median forecast of around 10.9 billion euros, while revenue from corporate and investment banking fell 6.8 percent due to continuing weakness in fixed-income trading.	cause_specific
BNP Paribas shares were up 0.2 percent at 0728 GMT and some analysts said the results were reassuring.	distant_evaluation
“Strong numbers across the board, their results are reassuring more than anything else,” said Sam Dawson, a Monaco-based analyst at investment bank Wood & Company.	distant_evaluation
Last month major Wall Street banks such as Goldman Sachs (GS.N) and Morgan Stanley (MS.N) reported higher profits, although Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE) last week reported a drop in quarterly earnings.	cause_general
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - New orders for key U.S.-made capital goods increased more than expected in July and growth in shipments held firm, signaling that business investment started the third quarter on a strong note.	main
Yields on U.S. government debt rose modestly after the data, with investors awaiting a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.	cause_general
U.S. stocks were trading higher while the dollar .DXY was down against a basket of currencies.	cause_general
Business investment drove about a quarter of economic growth in the second quarter.	cause_general
The economy grew at its fastest pace in the April-June period as consumers boosted spending and farmers rushed shipments of soybeans to China before retaliatory trade tariffs took effect in early July.	cause_general
The United States has slapped duties on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods so far, eliciting the retaliation from Beijing.	cause_general
Overall orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft that are meant to last three years or more, fell 1.7 percent in July as volatile demand for civilian aircraft fell.	cause_general
The Commerce Department said on Friday orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending plans, rose 1.4 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.9 percent increase in June.	cause_specific
“That provides further reason to think that overall GDP has continued to expand at a healthy ... pace,” said Andrew Hunter, an economist at Capital Economics.	distant_evaluation
Business spending on equipment is being supported by the Trump administration’s $1.5 trillion income tax cut package, which came into effect in January.	cause_general
But there are worries that trade tensions between the United States and its major trade partners, including China, Canada, Mexico and the European Union, could offset the fiscal stimulus.	distant_evaluation
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the so-called core capital goods orders rising 0.4 percent in July after a previously reported 0.2 percent gain in June.	cause_specific
Core capital goods orders increased 7.2 percent on a year-on-year basis.	cause_general
Shipments of core capital goods rose 0.9 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.9 percent gain in June.	cause_specific
Core capital goods shipments are used to calculate equipment spending in the government’s gross domestic product measurement, so the higher estimate for shipments in June could contribute to an upward revision of economic growth in the second quarter.	cause_general
DUBAI/ABU DHABI, Aug 6 (Reuters) - Creditors of Stanford Marine Group (SMG), which has links to troubled private equity firm Abraaj, are in talks with three potential buyers, sources familiar with the matter say.	main
Abraaj’s joint provisional liquidators did not respond to a request for comment.	cause_general
Waha also did not reply to a request for comment.	cause_general
With SMG in negative equity, any sale of the company would leave banks with a haircut of at least 40 percent, two of the sources said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Reuters was unable to verify the names of the potential buyers.	cause_general
One of the sources said London-based funds were among the interested buyers, while another source said they included private equity firms and “strategic” investors.	cause_general
From 2013 Abraaj was considering listing SMG on the stock market or selling it but the firm’s fortunes changed with the collapse in oil prices in 2015, which led to a dramatic fall in chartering rates and a drying up of projects.	distant_historical
SMG’s statement said it had demonstrated “resilient performance in the face of continued global downturn in the offshore marine industry with healthy demand for its fleet, leading to robust utilisation rates.”	distant_evaluation
The firm’s debt problems stem from a $325 million Islamic loan restructuring signed in June 2015 and provided by a group of banks including Noor Bank, Barwa Bank, Ajman Bank, United Arab Bank, Qatar Islamic Bank, and First Gulf Bank - now part of First Abu Dhabi Bank.	distant_historical
United States-based Fulcrum Capital, which has an office in Dubai, was among the companies that had looked at buying part of SMG’s bank debt, said two sources.	cause_general
Fulcrum didn’t respond to a request for comment.	cause_general
Banks are overseeing control of Dubai-based SMG after it failed to meet the terms of its debt obligations due to financial stress linked to a steep fall in chartering rates, the sources said.	cause_specific
(Editing by Susan Fenton)	error
SMG, which operates offshore supply vessels that service the oil and gas industry, is 51 percent owned by a fund managed by Abraaj.	cause_general
Dubai-based Abraaj filed for provisional liquidation in June after a row with investors over the use of their money in a $1 billion healthcare fund.	cause_specific
Abraaj denies any wrongdoing.	distant_evaluation
With Abraaj’s future uncertain, SMG’s creditors are likely to remain in the driving seat for the time being, the sources said.	distant_expectations_consequences
A source close to Abu Dhabi-based Waha Capital, which owns the remaining 49 percent share in SMG, said Waha was “maintaining a dialogue with the banks.”	distant_evaluation
“SMG, like many other companies in the industry, is in discussion with its financiers with respect to its existing financing facilities,” SMG said in a statement to Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“SMG’s financiers and shareholders continue to be supportive of the business and its management and look forward to continued future success.”	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - Great-West Lifeco Inc (GWO.TO), Canada’s second-biggest insurance company, is exploring the sale of a collection of insurance contracts that could fetch as much as $2 billion, three people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.	main
Management at the Winnipeg-based insurer held meetings in mid-August with prospective bidders which had made it through an initial round of bidding, according to the one source.	cause_specific
Among the parties to have shown interest in the policies include other insurance firms and financial companies, a second source said.	cause_general
Private equity firms and specialist investment firms such as Athene Holding (ATH.N) and Wilton Re have been significant buyers of run-off insurance blocks, believing they can juice the profits from administering such policies by cutting costs.	distant_evaluation
Among the largest such transactions in recent times are the $2.05 billion sale of Hartford Financial Services Group’s (HIG.N) life insurance and annuity run-off businesses to a group of investors, and Wilton Re’s $14 billion deal involving Aegon NV’s’ (AEGN.AS) pay-out annuity and COLI/BOLI businesses in the United States.	cause_general
As well as Canada, Great-West Lifeco and its subsidiaries have operations in the United States and Europe and have more than $1.4 trillion of consolidated assets under administration as of June 30, according to public filings from majority shareholder Power Financial Corp (PWF.TO).	cause_general
(The story is refiled to correct “contracts,” not “contacts” in 1st paragraph.)	error
The deal would represent one of the biggest divestments of such insurance books in recent times.	distant_evaluation
Insurance companies have been offloading such blocks, consisting of policies in areas where no new business is being underwritten, to free up cash to invest in more profitable parts of their operations.	cause_general
The sources asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.	cause_general
A spokesperson for Great-West said “as a matter of policy, we don’t comment on speculation or rumors”.	distant_evaluation
Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS.N) is arranging the sale process, the sources said.	main
A spokesperson for Goldman declined to comment.	cause_general
The portfolio of run-off insurance business being marketed by Great-West includes structured settlements, pay-out annuities, and corporate or bank-owned life insurance (COLI/BOLI), the sources said.	main
Some group benefits policies are also part of the sale, one of them said.	main
(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS.N) is ditching plans to open a desk for trading cryptocurrencies as the regulatory framework for crypto remains unclear, Business Insider reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the matter.	main
No conclusion - not endorsing/rejecting.	distant_historical
Know that folks also were skeptical when paper money displaced gold.”	distant_historical
Blankfein’s tweet was in sharp contrast to comments made by JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM.N) CEO Jamie Dimon, who called bitcoin a “fraud.” It is worse than tulips bulbs,” Dimon had said, referring to a famous market bubble from the 1600s.	distant_evaluation
Goldman’s rival Morgan Stanley (MS.N) had spoken in favor of the currency, with CEO James Gorman calling it “more than just a fad.”	distant_evaluation
The virtual currency can be used to move money around the world quickly and with relative anonymity, without the need for a central authority, such as a bank or government.	cause_general
A fund holding the currency could attract more investors and push its price higher.	cause_general
Bitcoin had rocketed to a record high of $16,000 in December.	distant_historical
Several small U.S. firms reshaped their business models to capitalize on the craze for blockchain technology, which supports cryptocurrency.	distant_historical
Beverage maker Long Island Iced Tea Corp’s LTEA.O shares jumped nearly 300 percent in late December after the company said it would rebrand itself Long Blockchain Corp.	distant_historical
However, regulators across the world have been intensifying their scrutiny of initial coin offerings (ICOs) and cryptocurrency exchanges.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: The Goldman Sachs company logo is seen in the company's space on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, (NYSE) in New York, U.S., April 17, 2018.	error
Last year, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission warned that some of the coins issued in ICOs could be considered securities, implying that trading them would have to comply with federal securities laws.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo	error
In recent weeks, Goldman executives have concluded that many steps still need to be taken, most of them outside the bank’s control, before a regulated bank would be allowed to trade cryptocurrencies, the financial news website reported.	cause_specific
“At this point, we have not reached a conclusion on the scope of our digital asset offering,” Goldman Sachs spokesperson Michael DuVally told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
Major cryptocurrencies plunged on the news.	cause_general
Bitcoin BTC=BTSP fell nearly 5 percent to touch five-day low at $6,985 on the Luxembourg-based Bitstamp exchange.	cause_general
Ethereum slid 9 percent, Litecoin 7.1 percent and Ripple 7.7 percent.	cause_general
In October, Goldman Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein had tweeted, “Still thinking about Bitcoin.	distant_historical
(Reuters) - Qualcomm Inc has no plans to abandon its efforts to create processors for data centers, the company’s president, who oversees the chip division, said.	main
We are still focused on it,” Amon told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
San Diego-based Qualcomm declined to say whether it had considered selling the server chip unit at some point in the past.	distant_evaluation
The company instead pointed to an April earnings call in which Chief Executive Officer Steve Mollenkopf said Qualcomm was considering cost-cutting options in areas that are not central to Qualcomm’s business, which overwhelmingly comes from selling chips and licensing technology for mobile phones.	distant_evaluation
Amon told Reuters that the server chip business will be rolled into Qualcom’s Qualcomm CDMA Technologies unit, which designs and sells mobile phone chips, to gain cost efficiencies.	distant_expectations_consequences
Amon said the restructured server chip unit will focus on large cloud computing players.	distant_expectations_consequences
He would not name U.S. targets, but said the company is hoping to sell to Chinese internet giants such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, Tencent Holdings Ltd and Baidu Inc through a joint venture in China.	distant_expectations_consequences
Large internet companies tend to write much of their own internal software and can customize it for Qualcomm’s chips.	cause_general
That means they will not struggle like smaller players to adapt off-the-shelf data center software that is overwhelmingly written to run on Intel’s so-called x86 chips.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s very clear to us that the ARM opportunity is focused on a few players where you don’t have the software x86 barrier to entry,” Amon said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Cristiano Amon, president of Qualcomm and Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, responds to a question during a panel discussion on 5G wireless broadband technology during the 2018 CES in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S. January 10, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Steve Marcus	error
Qualcomm, the largest maker of chips in mobile phones, last year launched chips that use technology from Softbank Group Corp’s ARM Holdings to power the workhorse computer servers behind cloud-based services such as social networks.	distant_historical
Qualcomm’s push to enter the data center market puts it in direct competition with Intel Corp, which dominates data centers and now draws half of its revenue from servers and other “data centric” chips.	cause_general
But in May, Bloomberg reported that Qualcomm was exploring whether to sell or shut down the server chip unit.	cause_specific
Qualcomm President Cristiano Amon told Reuters on Monday that the chipmaker is making staff reductions in the unit but intends to keep operating it, albeit with a narrower focus on large internet companies in the United States and China.	main
“We are not looking at strategic options.	distant_expectations_consequences
We are not selling.	distant_expectations_consequences
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) and Salesforce.com Inc (CRM.N) are entering a partnership in which the iPhone maker will help Salesforce build the iPhone maker’s features such as its Siri voice assistant deeper into Salesforce’s own mobile apps, which are widely used in the sales and marketing industries.	main
We’re changing the way people work, and that’s always been at the heart of what Apple is about - changing things for the better.”	distant_evaluation
In exchange, Salesforce is building tools so companies that tap into its back-end systems can make better use of Apple-specific features like Siri.	main
At Salesforce’s annual customer conference this week, Marriott International will demonstrate a new system that uses Salesforce and Apple tools so that hotel guests can turn up the heat, order a sandwich or hail a ride using Siri with an Apple HomePod in their hotel room.	distant_expectations_consequences
And at the next Marriot the guest stays at, Siri will remember the guest’s preferences - even their favorite sandwich, Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff told Reuters in an interview.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I don’t think I’ve met with a single customer in the world that doesn’t want me to help them do more with Tim’s products,” Benioff said Cook and Apple in the interview.	distant_evaluation
Salesforce also runs an educational platform called Trailhead, where it says one in four people who take courses in how to build business apps with Salesforce’s tools ends up getting a raise or promotion.	distant_evaluation
As part of the deal, Apple and Salesforce will add courses on how to develop iPhone and iPad applications.	distant_expectations_consequences
“These people are learning the tech skills that are elevating their careers,” Benioff said.	distant_evaluation
In exchange, Salesforce will make software tools so that the big businesses that use its back-end technology to power their own apps can build better products with features specific to iPhones and iPads.	main
Apple and Salesforce both have huge ecosystems of third-party software developers.	cause_general
About 20 million developers make software for Apple devices, most of them focused on the consumer, while Salesforce has about 5 million developers who tap into its back-end systems to build business applications - a market that Apple has been expanding into through deals with International Business Machines (IBM.N), Cisco Systems (CSCO.O) and Accenture (ACN.N).	cause_general
The partnership means that a salesperson can use Siri after a customer meeting to update that customer’s record with notes from the meeting, flag a customer service issue for a support team to follow-up on and many other data-entry tasks that can eat up valuable time.	distant_expectations_consequences
The new Apple iPhone X are seen on display at the Apple Store in Manhattan, New York, U.S., September 21, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton	error
“If you look at enterprise in general, voice has not been used as much as in consumer,” Apple CEO Tim Cook told Reuters in an interview.	distant_evaluation
“We’re going to be able to provide the sales rep instant access to things using your voice instead of clicks and going through different apps.	distant_expectations_consequences
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Danske Bank (DANSKE.CO) faced a new Danish money laundering inquiry on Thursday as political anger spread over a scandal involving 200 billion euros ($234 billion) in payments, many of which were suspicious, through Estonia.	main
One of the main factors behind a dramatic fall in Danske Bank’s share price this year is investor concern that it could have broken U.S. sanctions, which could entail billions of dollars in penalties.	distant_evaluation
Danske Bank said on Wednesday it had not so far found any breach of sanctions, while Chairman Ole Andersen said it had assessed whether it had violated U.S. laws, but declined to share its conclusion.	distant_evaluation
While authorities in the United States have yet to say whether they are investigating the payments, many of which came from Russia and other former Soviet states, Danske Bank’s case is already high on the agenda of European Union members.	distant_evaluation
European Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said on Thursday she will discuss the Danske Bank case with the finance ministers of Denmark, Finland and Estonia on October 2.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I want to understand better where the main errors happened, whether it was purely the fault of the lack of due diligence done by the bank itself or whether there was also some mistakes at the level of supervisory authorities,” she said.	distant_evaluation
Jourova told a news conference in Brussels that she will also discuss the case with the European Banking Authority to see if supervisory mistakes were made.	distant_expectations_consequences
And in a sign of investor concern, Brussels-based consultancy firm Deminor Recovery Service said it would seek shareholder backing for an impartial investigation of the case at Danske Bank’s annual general meeting in March.	distant_expectations_consequences
“STRIKING FAILURE”	distant_evaluation
Danish prime minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen voiced his concern over the failings exposed by the country’s biggest lender, saying he was “shocked” at the scope of the suspicious payments and pushed the bank for more answers.	distant_evaluation
“The fact that Denmark has been at the center of money laundering of this size is frankly quite horrible,” Rasmussen said outside a meeting of European Union leaders in Salzburg.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Danske Bank sign is seen at the bank's Estonian branch in Tallinn, Estonia August 3, 2018.	error
Danske Bank already faces a criminal investigation after the Danish state prosecutor for financial crime said in August it had started its own inquiry.	cause_general
“The case doesn’t end with this,” the PM said in reference to Wednesday’s report from Danske Bank.	distant_expectations_consequences
Danish politicians, who are scrambling to show they take the problem seriously, agreed on a new anti-money laundering law this week that will include an eight-fold increase in the size of fines, making it one of the toughest in Europe.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s a striking management failure,” Jeppe Kofod, who chairs the European Parliament’s special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“The responsible people should be fired to show that such a failure has consequences,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Danske Bank said it had taken action against former and current staff, but in Denmark, which regularly features in surveys as one of the world’s least corrupt countries, politicians were critical of it for not revealing how much money may have been laundered or who held legal responsibility.	distant_evaluation
Business minister Rasmus Jarlov said that Denmark wanted to avoid a scenario like the one in Latvia where ABLV was accused by U.S. authorities of covering up money laundering, leading to the bank being denied U.S. dollar funding and collapsing.	distant_evaluation
“We’re dealing with it here, and we crack down hard on money laundering, and we hope this is being noticed abroad,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Ints Kalnins/File Photo	error
Chief Executive Thomas Borgen resigned on Wednesday after an investigation commissioned by Danske Bank exposed control and compliance failings, fuelling calls for more stringent European Union rules after several such scandals.	cause_specific
The bank’s report sparked vocal political criticism and prompted Denmark’s Financial Services Authority (FSA) to revisit a case which it had put on ice earlier this year, but is reported to have attracted the attention of U.S. authorities.	cause_specific
“We’re reopening the investigation of the bank that we initially closed in May,” FSA head Jesper Berg told Danish broadcaster TV2.	main
In May an FSA report said it had found “serious weaknesses” in the bank’s governance and demanded reforms, as well imposing reprimands and a higher capital requirement.	distant_historical
Berg said the FSA would use the new information from Danske Bank’s report and focus on identifying a legal responsibility.	distant_expectations_consequences
In an indication of the penalties such lapses can entail, Dutch financial group ING (INGA.AS) agreed to pay 775 million euros this month after money laundering through its accounts.	cause_specific
LONDON (Reuters) - European stock markets ended broadly flat on Wednesday in a session of choppy trading amidst trade talks between the U.S. and China and uncertainty over U.S. President Donald Trump’s legal woes.	main
Continental cut its 2018 sales and margin guidance, citing lower revenues, higher costs for developing hybrid and electric car technologies, and unspecified warranty claims.	cause_general
“While most profit warnings are by definition a surprise, this one is all the more concerning as most of these headwinds were flagged and should have been evident when the company reported H2 results on 2 August; higher warranty costs being an exception,” analysts at Jefferies said in a note.	distant_evaluation
Elsewhere, shares in Belgian biopharma Argenx (ARGX.BR) rose 4.7 percent after Abbvie (ABBV.N) exercised an option to develop and commercialize a drug.	main
Among smaller companies, Adyen (ADYEN.AS), the Dutch company which processes payments for Netflix and Facebook, reported H1 profit up 75 percent and jumped 4.3 percent.	main
Though Atlantia (ATL.MI) rose earlier in the session, shares in the Italian infrastructure group declined steadily throughout the day and ended nearly 4 percent lower.	main
The group said it had started looking at the impact on its shares and bonds of government plans to strip it of its motorway concessions after the Genoa bridge collapse.	distant_evaluation
Linde (LING.DE) dipped 0.6 percent after warning that divestments needed to secure approval for its planned tie-up with Praxair had a size that would allow either party to abandon the deal.	main
The industrial gases supplier nevertheless added that it was in constructive talks to salvage the $83 billion merger.	distant_evaluation
Traders work at Frankfurt's stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, February 6, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski	error
The pan-European STOXX 600 was flat in percentage terms at its close as investors waited to see whether the United States and China could make progress towards resolving their trade conflict.	main
Political developments in the United States have had limited effects, at least so far.	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations on Tuesday and former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, was found guilty on charges of tax and bank fraud.	cause_general
“Stock markets are mixed as trade talks still dominate the headlines,” David Madden, market analyst at CMC Markets UK, said in a note.	distant_evaluation
While a rise in the oil price boosted oil stocks .SXEP and miners .SXPP also powered ahead, autos .SXAP were notable underperformers.	main
The sector dropped more than 3 percent and was on track for its biggest daily fall since the Brexit vote in June 2016 after automotive supplier Continental AG (CONG.DE) dropped more than 14 percent on the back of a profit warning.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar continued its slide on Wednesday as political pressure on President Donald Trump increased, and dipped briefly near session lows after the release of Federal Reserve meeting minutes which included cautious comments on trade.	main
The dollar also dipped briefly, before recovering, on the release of minutes from the Fed’s last meeting.	cause_general
U.S. central bankers discussed raising interest rates soon to counter excessive economic strength but also examined how global trade disputes could batter businesses and households.	distant_evaluation
“The FX market did react negatively, with the dollar falling, to cautious comments on trade and emerging markets, as the Fed flagged the downside risks.	distant_evaluation
Perhaps the market is extrapolating that it could mean a pause in tightening,” said Shaun Osborne, chief FX strategist at Scotiabank in Toronto.	distant_evaluation
But the dollar has been on the defensive recently, said Osborne, and the market is taking any excuse to add to shorts.	distant_evaluation
Easing fears about a currency crisis in Turkey and the Italian budget, as well as short-covering, sent the euro up for the sixth consecutive day.	cause_general
The euro gained 0.5 percent to a session high of $1.162.	cause_general
That marked a nearly three-cent rebound for the single currency from 14-month lows hit last week on fears of contagion from the Turkish currency crisis and renewed worries about Italian political turbulence.	distant_evaluation
The U.S.-China trade talks were set to begin later on Wednesday in Washington.	distant_evaluation
Expectations were generally low given they do not involve high-level officials.	distant_evaluation
Bank notes of different currencies, including Euro, U.S. Dollar, Turkish Lira or Brazilian Reais, are photographed in Frankfurt, Germany, in this illustration picture taken May 7, 2017.	error
The dollar strengthened mostly against the Japanese yen to 110.53 yen.	cause_general
It had weakened to 109.76 overnight, its lowest since late June.	cause_specific
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach/Illustration	error
Trump suffered twin setbacks on Tuesday with two former advisers facing possible prison sentences - and one of them saying Trump told him to commit a crime - possibly hurting his Republican Party’s November midterm election prospects and widening a criminal investigation that has overshadowed his presidency.	cause_general
This dampened investor appetite for riskier investments across asset classes.	distant_evaluation
Some analysts said renewed U.S. political uncertainty could keep the dollar under pressure, although the immediate currency impact was modest.	distant_expectations_consequences
The dollar index, which fell sharply this week after Trump criticized the U.S. Federal Reserve’s interest-rate increases, was down 0.3 percent to a daily low of 94.93.	cause_specific
“Political pressure on Trump is increasing ... reducing the likelihood that he will have the political capital to continue driving fiscal stimulus in the U.S. economy.	distant_evaluation
This suggests to many market participants that the era of U.S. outperformance is likely to end,” said Karl Schamotta, director of FX strategy and structured products at Cambridge Global Payments in Toronto.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON (Reuters) - Schroders (SDR.L) could soon help manage the money of people with significantly less in their bank accounts than the super-rich it has targeted so far, if talks with Lloyds (LLOY.L) about a wealth management tie-up succeed.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bank, which would own 50.1 percent of the joint venture, stood to gain from Schroders’ investment skills and greater diversification, analysts said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: A woman looks at her phone as she walks past a branch of Lloyds bank in London, Britain, July 20, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Toby Melville	error
Lloyds is also discussing taking a minority stake in Schroders’ Cazenove Capital wealth management arm, which manages the money of its existing wealthy clients.	cause_general
MANDATE	cause_general
The third pillar of the deal would see Schroders secure a high-profile new business mandate to manage 109 billion pounds of Lloyd’s insurance assets.	cause_general
This has been up for grabs since February, when Lloyds ended a management deal with newly-merged Standard Life Aberdeen (SLA.L) which it said had become a “material competitor”.	cause_general
The annual revenue associated with the Lloyds asset management contracts represented around 130 million pounds.	cause_general
Since then, several of the world’s biggest asset managers have competed for the mandate, which analysts at UBS said could add between 5 and 7 percent to Schroders earnings.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It would give Schroders an important scale advantage when attempting to win further mandates from insurers, given the scale-driven nature of the business,” they said, flagging a price target of 3,600 pence and ‘buy’ rating.	distant_expectations_consequences
Schroders, Britain’s second largest listed fund management group by assets under management and Lloyds Banking Group, Britain’s biggest retail lender, confirmed on Sunday they are in talks, but gave no further details.	main
Schroders, whose shares were 0.2 percent lower at 1216 GMT, saw its existing wealth management business post a solid first half, with net income up 8 percent to 144 million pounds and pre-tax profit of 38 million pounds.	cause_general
The FTSE 100 .FTSE index was down 0.7 percent.	cause_general
For Lloyds, whose shares were down 0.9 percent, the plans involve leveraging its position to be able to offer insurance and wealth services under the same roof via its insurance subsidiary Scottish Widows.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Something like this I think will be transformative from the perspective of the growth of that business,” John Cronin, financials analyst at Goodbody, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
($1 = 0.7672 pounds)	error
However, sources familiar with the discussions confirmed details of a Sky News report which said Lloyds would roll 13.8 billion pounds ($18 billion) of client money into a joint venture with Schroders, which would contribute its technology, operational platform and investment skills.	cause_general
This would allow Schroders to access thousands of so-called mass affluent, those with hundreds of thousands of pounds, rather than millions or billions, in investable capital.	distant_expectations_consequences
It would be the latest step in a long-standing plan by Schroders to diversify its revenues and follow other recent acquisitions in the sector as the industry consolidates.	distant_evaluation
Rathbone (RAT.L) bought Scotland’s Speirs & Jeffrey for 104 million pounds earlier this year, but as one of the only large British asset managers with a significant wealth management arm, analysts do not expect the Schroders talks to trigger copy-cat deals.	distant_historical
“A relationship with Lloyds could be an important source of new assets in Schroders’ home market.	distant_expectations_consequences
This points to management’s flexibility in the way it goes to market and to its savvy around building distribution relationships,” Bernstein analyst Edward Houghton said in a note to investors.	distant_evaluation
Lloyds (LLOY.L), which is looking for ways to diversify its business mix from banking, where further expansion is limited, has targeted insurance and wealth and made them a key pillar of its most recent three-year strategy outlined in February.	cause_general
Italy's largest bank UniCredit is pictured in downtown Milan September 12, 2013.	error
Jefferies analysts reckon the two could cut costs by around 1.6 billion euros a year before tax, equal to 18 percent of their combined 2017 pre-tax profit.	distant_expectations_consequences
The merger would also fulfil the European Central Bank’s aspirations for bigger, more diversified European banks.	distant_expectations_consequences
Though past talks have foundered on clashing executive egos, there is some overlap between the two lenders’ respective management teams.	cause_general
Mustier once ran SocGen’s investment banking arm.	distant_historical
The 30 billion euro French group’s Chairman, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, is a respected Italian economist and former ECB board member.	cause_general
Yet the usual barriers to cross-border European consolidation still apply.	cause_general
The larger bank would face extra capital requirements and struggle to mesh disparate computer systems.	distant_expectations_consequences
A merger would also do little to lower national barriers that require UniCredit’s German unit to maintain an unusually high capital buffer, more than a decade after the Italian group took control.	distant_expectations_consequences
The new stumbling block, however, is Italy’s politics.	main
The 32 billion UniCredit holds 51 billion euros of Italian government bonds, making it vulnerable to doubts about the new government’s commitment to the single currency.	cause_general
REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini ( ITALY - Tags: BUSINESS) - GM1E99C1OND01	error
The administration’s policies would also make Italy’s labour market less flexible, and could make it harder for lenders to seize collateral backing bad loans.	distant_expectations_consequences
Despite a recent bounce, UniCredit shares are down 17 percent over the past two weeks.	cause_general
Shifting UniCredit’s head office to Paris might help to insulate the bank’s non-Italian operations from political turmoil in Rome.	distant_expectations_consequences
But unless Italy’s euro zone tantrums diminish, the SocGen merger dream looks likely to remain just that.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON (Reuters Breakingviews) - Jean Pierre Mustier can’t be faulted for his ambition.	distant_evaluation
In the middle of a demanding turnaround of UniCredit, the Frenchman has once again raised the idea of merging Italy’s biggest bank by assets with his former employer Société Générale, according to the Financial Times.	cause_specific
The much-mooted combination would create a behemoth stretching from France to Russia.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Italy’s radical new government presents a fresh obstacle.	main
There are good reasons why the idea of uniting the two lenders has been kicked around for a decade and a half – and why it has not happened.	distant_evaluation
The combined bank would derive over two-fifths of its revenue from France, Italy and Germany, and another 16 percent from eastern Europe, according to analysts at KBW.	distant_expectations_consequences
Its bigger investment banking unit would be better able to compete with American rivals.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON (Reuters) - European shares fell on Monday as worries about U.S. trade policies and concerns about German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition government weighed on sentiment.	main
“The risk that the CSU may walk out of the government in Berlin, turning Merkel into the leader of a minority government, remains serious,” said Holger Schmieding from Berenberg.	distant_evaluation
In Frankfurt, shares in consumer electronics retailer Ceconomy (CECG.DE) were up 8.6 percent after news that telecoms company Freenet (FNTGn.DE), down 2.7 percent, would acquire a 9 percent stake.	cause_general
In Paris, Airbus (AIR.PA) shares fell 2.5 percent after Bloomberg News reported the European planemaker would miss its delivery target for Pratt & Whitney-powered (UTX.N) A320neo narrow-body jets this year.	main
French supermarket retailer Carrefour (CARR.PA) and British peer Tesco (TSCO.L) lost 0.9 percent and 0.2 percent respectively after they announced plans to form a global long-term purchasing alliance, as they seek to cut costs.	main
“An entente cordiale between the two giants of British and French retailing is yet another sign that squeezing the cost base is the biggest priority for supermarkets as they seek to contain the discounters and protect margins”, said Neil Wilson chief market analyst at Markets.com.	distant_evaluation
In London, the FTSE 100 was down 1.2 percent as tensions over Brexit continue within Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet and a new poll showed a record 75 percent of major British companies were now pessimistic about leaving the EU.	main
British gambling technology company Playtech (PTEC.L) posted the worst performance, losing over 26 percent after it disappointed investors with a trading update.	main
Among rare winners, British software company Micro Focus International (MCRO.L) was up 1.5 percent after it said it had agreed to sell its Linux operating system SUSE business to a private equity fund advised by Sweden’s EQT Partners for $2.535 billion.	cause_general
Milan's FTSE MIB .FTMIB was down 0.9 percent with Italian pharmaceutical group Recordati (RECI.MI) falling 12.5 percent after a consortium of investment funds controlled by CVC Capital Partners has agreed to buy a stake at a discount.	main
FILE PHOTO: The London Stock Exchange Group offices are seen in the City of London, Britain, December 29, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Toby Melville/File Photo	error
Economic data also failed to reassure investors with euro zone factory growth slowing to an 18-month low in June amid widespread concerns about new trade barriers.	cause_general
The pan-European STOXX 600 ended the session down 0.8 percent with losses across the continent and sectors.	main
“As has become the pattern of late, the markets sank on Monday morning following the latest weekend tariff talk from (U.S. President) Donald Trump, presumably to leave investors scrabbling about for any signs of trade war-avoidance across the rest of the week,” commented Spreadex analyst Connor Campbell.	distant_evaluation
The European Union has warned the United States that imposing import tariffs on cars and car parts would harm its own automotive industry and likely lead to counter-measures.	cause_general
Germany's trade-sensitive DAX .GDAXI was down 0.6 percent.	main
Merkel is to make a last-ditch effort to end a migration row with her conservative CSU allies by holding talks with her interior minister, whose offer to resign cast doubt over whether her fragile government can survive.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON (Reuters) - Borrowing costs in southern Europe shot up on Friday and stock markets in Milan and Madrid fell as threatened no-confidence motions against Spain’s prime minister exacerbated a sell-off provoked by growing political risk in Italy.	main
It was up 19 bps in late trade, marking its biggest daily jump since 2014 and biggest weekly rise in five years.	main_consequence
A little over a week ago it was trading below zero percent.	cause_general
To view a graphic on Italy's 2-year bond yield rockets, click: reut.rs/2KUHAwi	error
Ten-year bond yields in Spain, Italy and Portugal were up 5 to 6 bps each.	main_consequence
Spain’s benchmark stock index fell 1.7 percent.	main_consequence
“It’s the same theme in Spain and Italy but different stories,” said Investec chief economist Philip Shaw.	distant_evaluation
“While in Italy you have the prospects of a highly confrontational government, in Spain - even if we get fresh elections - the mix of parties likely to make up a new government would likely be the same as the present one.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The closely-watched Italy-Germany 10-year spread, seen by many investors as a proxy for sentiment towards the euro zone, was at its widest in four years at 215 bps.	main_consequence
German bonds, viewed as one of the safest assets in the world, benefited from the turmoil, with 10-year Bund yields set for their biggest weekly fall since the euro zone debt crisis year of 2012, down 18 bps.	main_consequence
To view a graphic on Germany's 10-year bond yield, click: reut.rs/2J91pmo	error
FILE PHOTO: Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy arrives to attend a 2018 budget plenary session at Parliament in Madrid, Spain, May 23, 2018.	error
Britain’s 10-year gilt yield was on track for its biggest weekly fall since just after the 2016 Brexit vote.	main_consequence
Demand for U.S. Treasuries was also lifted by the sell-off in southern European markets.	cause_general
The euro extended losses and fell by over half a percent to a 6 1/2-month low at $1.16465.	main_consequence
The sell-off in Italian and Spanish stocks deepened, with Italy’s FTSE MIB benchmark down 1.5 percent.	main_consequence
Spain’s IBEX was on course for its worst day since global market turmoil in early February.	distant_evaluation
Bank stocks were the worst hit with the euro zone banks index down 1.9 percent and also set for its biggest fall since early February.	main_consequence
Nearly twice the average daily volume was traded in Spain’s Caixabank and Santander as well as in Italy’s Banco BPM and Intesa Sanpaolo.	cause_general
“The underlying basics (for Spain’s economy) long-term are strong,” said a Madrid-based executive at an investment advisory firm who asked not be named.	distant_evaluation
“The country is growing but uncertainty is never good for any type of outlook and that’s going to impact the stock market.”	distant_evaluation
SPAIN RATTLED	main_consequence
Picture taken May 23, 2018.	error
Spanish 10-year government bond yields rose 9 basis points to 1.52 percent, pushing the gap over German Bund yields to 112 bps - its widest since early January.	main_consequence
It has blown out 16 bps this week, the biggest spread widening in almost two years.	main_consequence
Pierre Bose, head of European strategy at Credit Suisse, said that until now investors had had little Spanish political risk to worry about, apart the row between Madrid and Barcelona over an illegal Catalan independence referendum last year.	distant_evaluation
“Up until now, if you put Catalonia to one side, it was a relatively benign environment,” he said, adding that he remained positive on Spanish equities.	distant_evaluation
“This increases the level of noise, but does it change the earnings pattern at this point?	distant_evaluation
Not really.”	distant_evaluation
The cost of insuring exposure to Spanish debt in the five-year credit default swaps market rose to its highest since the end of October at 65 bps, according to IHS Markit.	main_consequence
But Italian CDS traded at 166 basis points, the highest in nearly a year.	main_consequence
To view a graphic on europe peripheral bond spreads and eurchf, click: reut.rs/2GQnMrB	error
REUTERS/Paul Hanna	error
The opposition Socialists presented one no-confidence motion in Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy to the Spanish parliament while his former allies, Ciudadanos, issued him with an ultimatum: call an election or face their own, second such motion..	main
The moves over a graft case involving members of Rajoy’s People’s Party prompted heavy selling of Spanish bonds in one of the biggest weekly moves on the euro zone government debt market in years.	main_consequence
This, and a sharp drop in Spanish stocks, contributed to further falls in the euro on currency markets.	main_consequence
It also gave investors an incentive to get out of Italian assets, which have already been rattled by the prospect of a spendthrift coalition government in Rome comprising the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and far-right League.	distant_evaluation
Italy’s 2-year bond yield climbed more than 30 basis points to its highest level in over four years at 0.67 percent.	main_consequence
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia intends to recover all funds illicitly taken from 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), and determine whether there are grounds for claims against companies, including Goldman Sachs (GS.N), that profited from dealing with the beleaguered state fund.	main
Reuters had reported last week that according to sources familiar with the issue Malaysia is considering asking the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) to get Goldman Sachs to return fees earned from the bond issues.	cause_general
Civil lawsuits filed in 2016 by the DOJ alleged that over $2.5 billion raised from those bonds were misappropriated by high-level 1MDB officials, their relatives and associates.	distant_historical
He also said Malaysia will look at the conduct of other banks involved in 1MDB transactions.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We’ve got to see the nexus, whether they were at fault.”	distant_evaluation
Lim said the United Malay National Organisation (UMNO), the party Najib had led until his election defeat, and from which Mahathir resigned in order to join the opposition, was not the only party to have received 1MDB money.	distant_evaluation
“To be fair, UMNO is not the only political party that received money,” Lim said.	distant_evaluation
“Those who have taken money from 1MDB, should return it to the country.”	distant_evaluation
INTERNATIONAL EFFORT	cause_general
Lim said the DOJ and enforcement agencies in several other countries were giving strong cooperation to Malaysia’s efforts to recoup 1MDB funds, and bring prosecutions.	cause_general
A proposal to monetize assets acquired using 1MDB funds that U.S. authorities are looking to seize under its anti-kleptocracy program was an option under consideration, Lim said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Men walk past a 1 Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) billboard at the fund's flagship Tun Razak Exchange development in Kuala Lumpur March 1, 2015.	error
The DOJ is seeking to seize $1.7 billion in assets allegedly bought with funds stolen from 1MDB, including a Picasso painting, shares in a Hollywood production company, a yacht and nearly $200 million in jeweler.	cause_general
Last month, Malaysian police said that cash worth 114 million ringgit ($28.6 million), jewelry and over 400 luxury handbags were seized from several apartments linked to Najib, as part of their probe into 1MDB.	cause_specific
Lim said his ministry is also investigating several “highly suspicious” deals made by Najib’s administration to determine if they were carried out to help pay for 1MDB dues.	cause_general
He declined to identify the deals, but said Malaysia was investigating state-run palm oil agency Felda’s $500 million acquisition of a non-controlling stake in Indonesia’s PT Eagle High Plantations Tbh (BWPT.JK).	cause_general
He did not say if the Felda deal, which was criticized for being expensive, was linked to 1MDB.	distant_evaluation
Last month, the finance ministry said about $500 million raised from a land sale by the government to the central bank, along with funds from sovereign wealth fund Khazanah Nasional, were used to pay 1MDB’s liabilities in 2017.	cause_specific
Lim said the government will have to pay an estimated 50 billion ringgit in debts and interest accumulated by 1MDB.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We are forced to pay that much against our will,” Lim said, adding that the government has sufficient funds, but may consider restructuring debt to clear 1MDB’s dues if it can secure better yields.	distant_evaluation
($1 = 3.9835 ringgit)	error
REUTERS/Olivia Harris/File Photo	error
Finance Minister Lim Guan Eng told Reuters in an interview on Thursday that a plan was “on the table” to ask all individuals and political parties to return money that came from 1MDB, which was allegedly used as a slush fund by former prime minister Najib Razak.	distant_evaluation
Having defeated his former protege in an election last month, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad’s administration has launched an investigation into how the fund founded by Najib lost billions of dollars.	cause_specific
Najib has consistently denied any wrongdoing, and repeated earlier this week that he did not benefit or steal money from 1MDB.	cause_general
Lim said the government would also scrutinize the $600 million paid in fees to Goldman Sachs for raising nearly $6.5 billion in three bond sales between 2012 and 2013 for 1MDB.	distant_expectations_consequences
Critics said the fees earned from those bond issues were far in excess of the normal 1-2 percent fees a bank could expect.	distant_evaluation
“We will be looking at the possibility of seeking claims from Goldman Sachs, where there are grounds to do so... definitely,” Lim told Reuters in an interview.	distant_expectations_consequences
MILAN (Reuters) - Italy’s political crisis risks undoing years spent rebuilding the country’s banks, undermining the value of their assets, choking off access to funding and rekindling euro exit fears.	main
REUTERS/Tony Gentile	error
(Graphic: Italian banks sovereign bond holdings - reut.rs/2L4hmrj)	error
PROPERTY HOPE	distant_expectations_consequences
Rome’s turmoil could also lift returns demanded by buyers of the bad loans banks are desperately striving to rid themselves of, stalling sales and forcing them to offer bigger discounts.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Bank of Italy forecast on Tuesday 65 billion euros in sales of impaired bank loans this year and urged lenders to press ahead with cutting soured debt.	cause_general
Despite a 75 billion euro drop from their post-recession peak of 360 billion euros, problem loans in Italy still account for around 14 percent of total bank lending.	cause_general
That is twice the level of neighboring Spain where the clean-up process has been much faster thanks to European Union aid, solid economic growth and a rebound in real estate prices.	distant_evaluation
Claudio Scardovi a managing director at Alix Partners said a lagging property rebound was still likely to draw investors to Italy in the face of real estate bubbles in Britain, the Nordics and to some degree in France.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Italy’s real estate market has improved only in large cities such as Milan and Rome, and tourist areas and Francesco Castelli, head of fixed income at Banor Capital, said a continued and more uniform economic expansion was key for the rebound to take a wider grip.	distant_evaluation
Renewed doubts over the single currency have chilled Italy’s bond markets and reawakened the spectre of capital flight that shook Italian banks during the 2011-2012 sovereign crisis.	distant_evaluation
“A property investment has an at least five-year horizon: just as the economy was growing again there are doubts about its mid-term prospects,” Castelli said.	distant_evaluation
MID-MARKET MAYHEM	cause_general
Mid-sized lenders, such as Banco BPM (BAMI.MI), UBI Banca (UBI.MI) and BPER Banca (EMII.MI), are seen as more vulnerable to the turmoil because they lag big players like Intesa Sanpaolo (ISP.MI) and UniCredit (CRDI.MI) in cutting bad loans.	distant_evaluation
Italy’s 10th-largest bank Credito Valtellinese (PCVI.MI) has been among the worst hit, even though just ahead of the March election it managed to raise eight times its market value in a share sale and gain 35 percent in value in its aftermath.	main_consequence
Shares in Creval, which has one of the highest sovereign exposures relative to its capital and a high bad loan burden, are 11 percent below the 0.10 euros at which it sold new shares.	main_consequence
Analysts warn that smaller Italian lenders are also the most at risk from rising financing costs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Wholesale funding markets have effectively shut down for Italian banks and traders say they will take a long while to reopen.	main_consequence
Italy’s strongest bank Intesa SanPaolo (ISP.MI) placed a 10-year bond IT178534017= after the election at 77 basis points over the swap rate.	cause_general
This now trades with a 200 basis point spread, showing how conditions have worsened.	main_consequence
Although tight funding markets are not an immediate concern because most banks are awash with liquidity, they do raise a question mark over plans by state-owned Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMPS.MI) and smaller rival Banca Carige (CRGI.MI) to rebuild their Tier 2 capital buffers with hybrid debt.	distant_evaluation
As a result, Italy’s lenders .FTIT8300 have lost more than a fifth of their market value in just two weeks, tracking a fall in its bonds as an anti-establishment coalition sought, and failed, to form a government.	main_consequence
Carige CEO Paolo Fiorentino said on Tuesday that political risks had paralyzed markets when asked about the bank’s plan to issue a subordinated bond, a spokeswoman for the bank said.	distant_evaluation
Monte dei Paschi declined to comment.	cause_general
Before the political storm, Italy’s banks had been outperforming euro zone rivals after reducing a bad loan burden that had threatened to cripple them.	cause_general
And encouraged by Italy’s economic upturn, hedge funds had even piled into the country’s mid-tier lenders, betting on them as the last European recovery play.	cause_general
But the prospect of snap elections after Italy’s president on Sunday vetoed the coalition’s eurosceptic economy minister has deepened a sell-off on fears of a de facto referendum on the euro and a further boost to anti-establishment parties.	main_consequence
“Risks perceived by investors have risen sharply and that is why they are knocking down the value of Italian banks, which even before the latest turmoil traded below their book values,” said Andrea Resti, a professor at Milan’s Bocconi University and an adviser on banking supervision to the European Parliament.	distant_evaluation
A 2.3 trillion euro public debt pile, the world’s third-largest, poses a direct threat to the banks, which face steep losses on 352 billion euros of domestic bond holdings after Italy’s benchmark yield hit a four-year high.	distant_expectations_consequences
Former senior International Monetary Fund (IMF) official Carlo Cottarelli speaks to the media after a meeting with Italy's President Sergio Mattarella at the Quirinal Palace in Rome, Italy, May 28, 2018.	error
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Opposition politicians and many ordinary Argentines have been quick to criticize President Mauricio Macri’s decision to seek a lifeline from the International Monetary Fund but the gamble could pay off if he is able to avoid onerous terms.	distant_evaluation
In a sign Macri’s government was pressing ahead with its agenda despite the crisis, the Congress passed a long-awaited capital markets reform law quicker than expected on Wednesday.	main
But the lower house of Congress was also expected to pass an opposition bid to limit price increases by utilities, following a reduction in government subsidies to help reduce the budget deficit.	distant_expectations_consequences
The government has said it would veto the bill, which has contributed to market jitters, if it passes both houses.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Merval stock index closed up 6.5 percent after the capital markets bill passed.	main_consequence
It had lost 12 percent in the previous five trading sessions.	cause_general
“If, by resorting to the IMF, the government manages to stabilize the situation, then the political cost of having this unexpected guest back again may be short-lived,” said Ignacio Labaqui, who analyses Argentina for risk consultancy Medley Global Advisors.	distant_expectations_consequences
RE-ELECTION BID	distant_expectations_consequences
If the IMF lifeline continues to calm markets and does not dramatically change Macri’s agenda, his gamble on seeking assistance could bear dividends.	distant_expectations_consequences
He will have re-established ties to the Fund in time for the political fallout to settle before his expected 2019 re-election campaign.	distant_expectations_consequences
But if it fails to restore confidence or requires draconian austerity measures, Macri’s appeal to the IMF could jeopardize his ability to win a second term.	distant_expectations_consequences
Demonstrators march during a protest against the economic measures taken by Argentine President Mauricio Macri's government in Buenos Aires' financial district, Argentina May 9, 2018.	error
“The government is aware of the costs.	distant_evaluation
It is a step they would have preferred not to take.	distant_evaluation
They are running the risk of deepening the decline in popularity,” said Juan Cruz Diaz, managing director of Cefeidas Group, a political risk consultancy in Buenos Aires.	distant_evaluation
“But this is the moment to make these difficult decisions.”	distant_evaluation
Macri was driven back to the IMF by a perfect storm including a free-falling peso and an economy hobbled by one of the world’s highest inflation rates, running at around 25 percent.	cause_specific
The peso closed 0.53 percent weaker on Wednesday following several days of turmoil that prompted the central bank to increase interest rates on Friday and the government to cut its fiscal deficit target to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product.	cause_general
Market nerves were strained by a new tax the government slapped on foreign investors last month.	cause_general
Investors had already been shying away from emerging markets generally, ahead of expected further tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve, which hit currencies across Latin America.	cause_general
On the streets of Buenos Aires, many Argentines were apprehensive the IMF could once again impose a straitjacket on their country, after the spectacular failure of its policies 17 years earlier.	distant_expectations_consequences
A screen displays a chart as traders work on the floor of Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, Argentina May 9, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci	error
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci	error
According to a survey taken by polling firm D’Alessio IROL/Berensztein last weekend, 75 percent of respondents said they would not support a government request for assistance from the IMF.	cause_general
That included 58 percent of those who voted for Macri’s ‘Let’s Change’ coalition in the 2015 elections.	cause_general
Thousands of union members and supporters of Fernandez and other opposition parties rallied outside Congress on Wednesday evening in protest of Macri’s business-friendly policy reforms, and the IMF’s re-involvement in Argentina.	cause_general
“I feel my salary is devalued more and more.	distant_anecdotal
On the macro level, these measures seem to me like holding down a person who is already drowning,” said Juan Manuel Gavilan, a state employee.	distant_anecdotal
Macri and IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde announced on Tuesday they were opening talks for a financing deal after Argentina’s peso currency touched a new low of 23.5 to the dollar, despite tighter fiscal measures and hiking interest rates up to 40 percent in Latin America’s third-largest economy.	cause_specific
On Wednesday, the Treasury Ministry announced it would seek a stand-by deal’ from the IMF, a type of financing that would likely require more conditions and orthodox policy reforms than a Flexible Credit Line (FCL), such as the more stable economies of Mexico and Colombia have.	distant_evaluation
For many, the announcement brought back memories of a 2001-2002 financial crisis that many blamed on IMF policy prescriptions adopted by the government.	distant_evaluation
The crisis was punctuated by a debt default and currency devaluation that tossed millions of middle-class Argentines into poverty.	distant_historical
Opposition politicians, particularly those allied with leftist former President Cristina Fernandez, were quick to denounce the deal, placing “IMF OUT!” signs on their desks in Congress.	distant_evaluation
“Every time Argentina turns to the International Monetary Fund it has been followed by very bad news for Argentina,” Agustin Rossi, head of Fernandez’s party in the lower house, said on Wednesday.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 07:55:47|Editor: WX	error
For the year, U.S. crude has lost almost 25 percent, while Brent crude has lost nearly 20 percent.	cause_general
On Wednesday, oil prices rallied amid signs that major oil producers have been cutting back on output.	cause_specific
WTI gained 1.13 dollars to settle at 46.54 dollars a barrel, while Brent crude increased 1.11 dollars to close at 54.91 dollars a barrel.	cause_general
At a meeting in December, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and some other major oil producers, including Russia, pledged to cut production by 1.2 million barrels per day, effective from January 2019.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Thursday, oil prices climbed in choppy trading after separate surveys indicated crude output in major oil producers declined.	cause_specific
WTI gained 0.55 dollar to settle at 47.09 dollars a barrel, while Brent crude increased 1.04 dollars to close at 55.95 dollars a barrel.	cause_general
On Friday, oil prices rallied as the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil declined after two straight weeks of gains.	cause_specific
WTI gained 0.87 dollar to settle at 47.96 dollars a barrel, while Brent crude increased 1.11 dollars to close at 57.06 dollars a barrel.	cause_general
The number of active drilling rigs in the United States decreased by eight to 1,075 during the week ending Jan. 4.	cause_specific
And the number of rigs operating in U.S. oil fields decreased by eight to a total of 877.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
U.S. crude oil inventories remained virtually unchanged in the week ending Dec. 28.	cause_general
At 441.4 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories were about 8 percent above the five-year average for this time of year, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in a report on Friday.	cause_general
EIA also reported that U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 17.8 million barrels per day in the week, which was 410,000 barrels per day more than the previous week's average.	cause_general
Looking back on the year of 2018, the prices for both crude oil benchmarks finished the year lower than they began it.	cause_general
Brent crude oil ended the year at 54 U.S. dollars per barrel, 13 dollars per barrel lower than it began the year.	cause_general
WTI ended the year at 45 dollars per barrel, 15 dollars per barrel lower than it began the year.	cause_general
In the meantime, the market will wait to see the impacts of the daily 1.2-million-barrel supply cut deal between OPEC and its allies.	distant_evaluation
Despite the solid gains for both oil benchmarks in the first week of 2019, the market is paying close attention to the global economy as the United States and China will hold trade talks next week.	distant_evaluation
HOUSTON, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- Oil prices rebound during the week ending Jan. 4, with the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for February delivery increasing by 5.8 percent and Brent crude for March delivery increasing by 9.3 percent.	main
In the previous week ending Dec. 28, oil prices went down slightly.	cause_general
WTI decreased 0.57 percent, and Brent crude decreased 3.01 percent.	cause_general
At the end of the week, WTI settled at 45.33 U.S. dollars a barrel, while Brent crude closed at 52.20 dollars a barrel.	cause_general
On Monday, the last day of 2018, oil prices advanced amid positive signs of global trade prospects.	cause_specific
WTI gained 0.08 dollar to settle at 45.41 dollars a barrel, while Brent crude increased 0.59 dollar to close at 53.80 dollars a barrel.	cause_general
Both oil benchmarks were down more than a third during the fourth quarter of 2018, the steepest decline since the fourth quarter of 2014.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-28 18:16:43|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
China will strengthen counter-cyclical adjustments in its macro policy in 2019, with bolder and more effective measures to be taken to implement the proactive fiscal policy, according to the annual Central Economic Work Conference held last week.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Dec. 28 (Xinhua) -- China will reduce taxes and fees on a larger scale next year, according to the country's finance minister.	main
Inclusive and structural tax cuts will be implemented in 2019, with priority on easing the burden on manufacturing as well as for small and micro-sized businesses, Minister of Finance Liu Kun told a national fiscal work conference held Thursday and Friday.	main
Technology startups will also be offered tax cuts and exemptions, the minister said.	main
"He pledged ""more significant"" fee reductions with moves to better regulate local fee charging."	main
The government will increase the efficiency of fiscal fund allocation and usage, optimize the structure of spending, and fully implement budget performance management next year, according to Liu.	distant_expectations_consequences
"He urged governments at all levels to ""tighten their belts"" by slashing general expenditure, strictly controlling spending on official overseas visits, government-procured vehicles and official receptions, and scrapping inefficient expenses."	distant_evaluation
"""In addition, management of local government debt will be strengthened next year, with a relatively large increase in special bond issuance by local governments,"" Liu said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 02:30:08|Editor: Yurou	error
Video Player Close	error
LONDON, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- British stocks rose on Friday, with the benchmark FTSE 100 Index up by 2.16 percent, or 144.76 points, to close at 6,837.42 points.	main
Antofagasta, a copper mining company, soared 6.45 percent, the top gainer of the blue chips.	cause_general
Schroders and Evraz increased by 6.27 percent and 6.13 percent respectively.	cause_general
Fresnillo, a Mexican-based precious metals mining company, was the worst performer in the blue chips, with its shares losing 1.49 percent.	cause_general
BT Group, a British multinational telecom holding company, dropped 1.15 percent.	cause_general
J Sainsbury, one of the largest operators of supermarkets in the UK, fell 1.14 percent.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-28 16:16:15|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
Video Player Close	error
SEOUL, Dec. 28 (Xinhua) -- South Korea's central bank said Friday that it has picked 11 banks, including five foreign banks, as liquidity provider in the direct won-yuan trading market for next year.	main
The direct transaction market between the South Korean won and the Chinese yuan was launched here in 2014 to boost payments and settlements in trade using both currencies and reduce the exchange rate-related risks.	distant_historical
The six domestic banks, selected to take the lead in providing bid and offer prices in the won-yuan market, included Kookmin Bank, Industrial Bank of Korea, Shinhan Bank, Woori Bank, KEB Hana Bank and Korea Development Bank, according to the Bank of Korea (BOK).	main
The five local branches of foreign banks were Bank of Communications, China Construction Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Bank of China, and HSBC.	main
The BOK said it would continue to support the liquidity providers and make efforts to facilitate the settlement using the South Korean won and the Chinese yuan.	distant_expectations_consequences
As of December, the daily average trading volume was 1.82 U.S. dollars in the won-yuan trading market in Seoul.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 17:32:49|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
HONG KONG, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- The gold price in Hong Kong closed at 12,088 Hong Kong dollars (about 1,543.81 U.S. dollars) per tael on Friday, up 46 Hong Kong dollars from the previous trading day, according to the Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange Society.	main
(1 U.S. dollar equals to 7.83 HK dollars)	error
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-28 10:49:58|Editor: Chengcheng	error
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Dec. 27 (Xinhua) -- An index indicated a moderation in the upward trend of U.S. economic growth, though the economy is still expanding, the Federal Reserve Bank (Fed) of Philadelphia said on Thursday.	main
The Philadelphia Fed's U.S. index, a coincident index to summarize multiple economic indicators with one single reading, rose by 0.18 percent to hit 124.8 in November.	cause_specific
The November growth rate of the index was lower than the growth rate of 0.21 percent in the previous month, signaling that the upward trend in U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) was moderating.	cause_specific
The coincident index combines four key economic indicators, including nonfarm payroll employment, average hours worked in manufacturing by production workers, the unemployment rate, and wage and salary disbursements deflated by the consumer price index.	cause_general
At the state level, the coincident indexes rose in 43 states in November, dropped in three states, and remained flat in four others.	cause_general
Over the past three months, the index increased in 47 states and dropped in three states.	cause_general
The Federal Reserve recently revised down its forecast for U.S. economic growth in 2019 to 2.3 percent from the previous projection of 2.5 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-27 17:51:10|Editor: Yamei	error
Video Player Close	error
HANOI, Dec. 27 (Xinhua) -- Vietnam achieved gross domestic product (GDP) growth of 7.08 percent in 2018, the highest rate over the past 10 years, up from the annualized target of 6.5-6.7 percent, its General Statistics Office said on Thursday.	main
In the fourth quarter alone, the GDP expanded 7.31 percent against the same period last year.	cause_specific
Vietnam's top legislature has set a target of attaining GDP growth of 6.6-6.8 percent next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
In October, the World Bank predicted Vietnam's economy would expand 6.6 percent in 2019 and 6.5 percent in 2020.	distant_expectations_consequences
In 2018, Vietnam reaped export turnovers of over 244.7 billion U.S. dollars, up 13.8 percent against 2017, and import turnovers of more than 237.5 billion U.S. dollars, up 11.5 percent, posting a trade surplus of 7.2 billion U.S. dollars.	cause_general
Meanwhile, its consumer price index (CPI), which measures changes in the prices paid by consumers for a basket of 11 goods and services, rose 3.54 percent, far below the target of 4 percent, said the office.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-27 15:35:37|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Dec. 27 (Xinhua) -- China's social net wealth, an important gauge of overall national strength, totaled 437 trillion yuan (63.48 trillion U.S. dollars) in 2016, ranking only second to the United States, a report showed.	main
By the end of 2016, China had 424 trillion yuan in domestic non-financial assets and 13 trillion yuan in external net assets, according to a report released Wednesday by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.	cause_general
The total net wealth was equivalent to 70.7 percent of the U.S. wealth level during the same period, ranking second in the world.	cause_general
In 2016, 73 percent of the country's social net wealth was owned by residents, while the remaining 27 percent was held by the government, functioning as a strong buttress for China to counter financial risks.	cause_general
To improve net wealth productivity, the report calls for improving production efficiency for non-financial firms, cutting inefficient investment and shifting away from investment-led growth model.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-27 11:04:46|Editor: Yang Yi	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Dec. 27 (Xinhua) -- Profits of China's major industrial firms grew 11.8 percent year on year in the first 11 months of 2018, down from the 13.6 percent expansion for the January-October period, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said on Thursday.	main
Profits in 34 of the 41 sectors surveyed rose compared with one year earlier, unchanged from that for the January-October period, according to the NBS.	cause_general
In November, combined profits at industrial firms with annual revenue of more than 20 million yuan (about 2.89 million U.S. dollars) fell 1.8 percent year on year to 594.75 billion yuan, compared with an increase of 3.6 percent recorded in October.	cause_general
According to the NBS, the sectors of steel, construction materials, oil exploitation, chemicals and special equipment manufacturing contributed 76.6 percent to the overall industrial profit increase.	cause_general
By the end of November, the debt-asset ratios of major industrial firms dropped 0.4 percentage points from a year earlier to 56.8 percent.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 07:20:27|Editor: ZD	error
Video Player Close	error
CHICAGO, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) agricultural futures closed much higher on Thursday, with soybeans posting more gains amid dry weather that has prevailed in parts of Brazil and hopes for new purchases by China.	main
Dry weather conditions are reportedly impacting more than a third of Brazil's soybean and corn growing area, pushing up the CBOT futures in the past two days.	cause_specific
CBOT soybeans, following a brief overnight retreat on profit-taking, returned to the positive territory and posted more gains, along with U.S.-China trade optimism, even after a partial shutdown of the U.S. federal government has made it difficult for traders to follow official export sales reports.	cause_general
Meanwhile, CBOT wheat prices were boosted by technical buying, with the weakening U.S. dollar as an additional supporting factor, said market watchers.	cause_specific
At the end of the session, CBOT March corn was up 4 cents, or 1.06 percent to close at 3.7975 U.S. dollars per bushel.	cause_specific
March wheat was up 7 cents, or 1.38 percent to settle at 5.1375 dollars.	cause_specific
March soybeans were up 5.75 cents, or 0.63 percent to settle at 9.1275 dollars per bushel.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 04:15:10|Editor: WX	error
The S&P 500 jumped up 85.05 points, posting its biggest intraday reversal in the week.	cause_specific
The Nasdaq Composite Index surged 275.35 points, also winning its biggest intraday turnaround in the week.	cause_specific
Rebounds in the tech sector on the final trading day this week eroded some of the deep slumps of U.S. stocks bore in previous sessions.	cause_general
Shares of major tech giants and trade-related multinationals extended gains, including Netflix, Tesla, Intel, and Boeing.	cause_general
The information technology sector has frequently led the winners in the 11 primary sectors, most of which rallied in the week except Thursday.	cause_general
U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell quelled growing market fears on Friday in the wake of Apple's slash of quarterly revenue forecast on Thursday.	cause_general
Powell stressed Fed officials are patient and keeping a close eye on the voices of financial market, calling Fed policy as flexible and clung to real-time economic developments.	distant_evaluation
"""As always, there is no preset path for policy,"" Powell said."	distant_evaluation
"""And particularly with muted inflation readings that we've seen coming in, we will be patient as we watch to see how the economy evolves."""	distant_evaluation
Tang Yao, an associate professor of applied economics at Peking University, has predicted that the Fed would continue to send dovish signals and likely reduce interest rate hikes later this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"""If it happens, the market will see a combination of 'no rate hikes/decreases plus declining stocks' in the future,"" Tang told Xinhua, adding that downside risks for equities markets came from investors' expectations of slowing growth and high valuation of U.S. stocks."	distant_expectations_consequences
Thursday was a day to mourn for Wall Street due to broad losses in the wake of Apple's dire slash of its first-quarter revenue forecast, which had fuelled persistent anxieties over ebbing global economic growth.	distant_evaluation
The Dow plunged more than 600 points, or 2.83 percent.	cause_general
The S&P 500 slumped 62.14 points, or 2.48 percent.	cause_general
The Nasdaq plummeted 202.43 points, or 3.04 percent.	cause_general
Apple downwardly revised revenue forecast in the first quarter in fiscal 2019 on Thursday, and blamed China for the shortfall due to declining sales, as well as shrinking retail stores and channel partners across the country.	distant_evaluation
Analysts said that trade tensions between the U.S. and China could take an increasing toll on companies in both nations.	distant_expectations_consequences
Meanwhile, weakness in emerging market currencies, caused by the stronger U.S. dollar, would also undermine Apple's global sales.	distant_evaluation
"""Weakness in emerging market (EM) currencies, such as India's, Turkey's and Russia's, also weighed on sales and forced Apple to raise prices, curbing demand."	distant_evaluation
"This could have broader implications for U.S. firms with outsized EM revenue,"" UBS Global Wealth Management said Thursday in a research note."	distant_expectations_consequences
NEW YORK, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- U.S. stocks started off the first week of 2019 on an upbeat note as investors restored some confidence amid vertiginous ups and downs in stock prices, positive Fed signals and a batch of economic data.	main
Wall Street also digested a slew of key economic data.	cause_general
Stronger-than expected employment data helped regain steam for the U.S. economy on Friday.	cause_general
Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 312,000 in December, beating a market expectation of 176,000 jobs, said the Bureau of Labor Statistics under Labor Department on Friday.	cause_general
The ISM manufacturing index, indicating expansion pace of economic activity in the manufacturing sector, dipped to 54.1 in December, its lowest level since November 2016, which was weaker than market expectations, according to a report by the U.S. management association Institute for Supply Management.	cause_general
The number of weekly jobless claims, or Americans applying for unemployment benefits, reached 231,000 with a seasonally adjusted increase of 10,000 for the week ending Dec. 29, said the U.S. Labor Department on Thursday.	cause_general
The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit final U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) posted 53.8 in December, down from 55.3 in November, marking a 15-month low of U.S. manufacturing growth, according to the London-based global information provider IHS Markit on Wednesday.	cause_general
In the week ending Jan. 4, the Dow rallied 1.69 percent, the S&P 500 was up 1.93 percent, and the Nasdaq gained 2.45 percent.	main
The equities continued their weekly gain following the first December weekly gain last week, but are still on course to a strenuous recovery from their worst monthly performance in December since 1931.	cause_general
This week marked capricious trading sessions for the market.	distant_evaluation
On Friday, the three major indices ended higher, closing out the week positively after sharp gains offset sudden losses.	cause_general
Friday notched solid gains throughout the day, as tech stocks surged, job market retained strength and U.S. Federal Reserve chair hinted at slower monetary tightening.	cause_general
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 746.94 points dramatically higher on Friday, marking its biggest daily rebound in the week.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 00:29:42|Editor: Yurou	error
Tesla shares clawed back some of the sharp losses of more than three percent on Wednesday and nearly 10 percent on Tuesday, after it has reportedly left over 3,000 Model 3s in inventory in the U.S. by Dec. 30, 2018.	cause_general
"Shares of Intel also rose over four percent after Bank of America Merrill Lynch upgraded the company's stock from ""neutral"" to ""buy."""	cause_general
All of the 11 primary sectors rallied on Friday, with the information technology sector up over 3.5 percent and the energy sector up over 2.5 percent, leading the winners.	cause_general
On the economic front, upbeat job market data helped recover some momentum for the U.S. economic growth.	cause_specific
Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 312,000 in December, exceeding market expectations, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, under Labor Department, reported on Friday.	cause_general
Yet the unemployment rate went up to 3.9 percent, which was highest level since July, 2018.	cause_general
Job gains occurred in health care, food services and drinking places, construction, manufacturing, and retail trade, the bureau said.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
NEW YORK, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- U.S. stocks opened higher on Friday, amid gains in major tech stocks and stronger-than-expected job growth reported by U.S. Labor Department on Friday, which helped restore confidence in investors concerned over weakening economic growth.	main
Shortly after the opening bell, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 625.56 points, or 2.76 percent, to 22,894.92.	main
The S&P 500 rose 66.68 points, or 2.72 percent, to 2,474.33.	main
The Nasdaq Composite Index rallied 203.63 points, or 3.15 percent, to 6,567.14.	main
Rebounds in tech shares offset some of the steep tumbles the U.S. stock markets suffered in previous sessions this week.	cause_general
"Shares of Netflix bounced nearly four percent, after Goldman sachs reportedly added the media-service provider to its ""conviction buy"" list, regarding it as ""one of the best risk/reward propositions in the Internet sector."""	cause_general
Shares of Tesla rebounded roughly two percent, as it announced earlier Friday its plan to deliver the Model 3 to China in March, according to the Chinese official website of the company.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 21:48:54|Editor: mmm	error
The final new year's auction at Tsukiji in 2018 saw a tuna fetch 36.45 million yen (335,852 dollars).	cause_general
The Tokyo metropolitan government decided in 2001 to relocate the aging Tsukiji market to Toyosu, a new tourist attraction in Tokyo, as it is suited for controlling temperatures and sanitation and is 1.7 times larger than Tsukiji.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- A bluefin tuna was sold on Saturday for a record 333.6 million yen (3.1 million U.S. dollars) at the first new year auction at the Toyosu fish market in Tokyo, Japan, local media reported.	main
The 278-kilogram tuna was fetched in Oma, Aomori Prefecture and cost 1.2 million yen (11,057 dollars) per kilogram.	cause_general
The total price beat all the records of first new year biddings at the metropolitan central market since 1999 when records began.	cause_general
The market was relocated from nearby Tsukiji last year, a famous destination among both tourists and local Japanese for its fresh seafood.	distant_historical
It is customary for bidders to pay a high price at the first auction of each year, particularly this year as it was the first held at the new market since it opened in October.	distant_evaluation
Kiyomura Corp., a Tokyo-based operator of sushi restaurant chain Sushizanmai, successfully bid for the tuna this year.	cause_general
The company was the highest bidder at Tsukiji for six consecutive new year's auctions through 2017 and held the previous record of 155.4 million yen (1.43 million dollars) for a 222-kilogram tuna in 2013.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 01:34:56|Editor: Yurou	error
Video Player Close	error
MADRID, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- Spanish shares gained on Friday with the benchmark stock market index Ibex-35 up 2.52 percent or 214.50 points, to a total of 8,737.80 points.	main
A total of 34 of the selected 35 large companies gained in the day.	cause_specific
Steel manufacturing corporation ArcelorMittal advanced 6.43 percent, the top gainer of the day.	cause_specific
Automotive company CIE Automotive was up 6.15 percent and energy company Ence went up 6.02 percent.	cause_specific
Electricity supplier REC lost 0.03 percent.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-22 20:20:24|Editor: xuxin	error
The new regulations apply to countries which have joined a G20 initiative for more international investment and were SMEs previously faced relatively steep deductible rates of up to 5 percent.	cause_general
Amongst others, German exporters operating in the African markets of Cote D'Ivoire, Senegal, Ethiopia, Ghana and Rwanda stand to benefit from the expansion of government guarantees.	cause_general
Commenting on the development on Wednesday, Liebing expressed confidence that the change would boost trade and capital flows between Germany and Africa.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""It's working."	distant_evaluation
"A large number of projects have been successfully realized (as a consequence of the new policy regime),"" Liebing said."	distant_evaluation
He noted that the volume of export guarantees for Africa more than doubled during the first six months of the year to 1.09 billion euros (1.26 billion U.S. dollar) and had hence already surpassed the total annual level of 2017.	cause_general
Liebing pointed to the opening of a Volkswagen plant in the Rwandan capital of Kigali, as well as an ongoing cooperation between German Gauff Engineering and a Chinese partner to build Africa's longest suspension bridge in Mozambique.	cause_general
While Germany is still a relatively small player in Africa, China has emerged as one of the continent's largest trading and investment partners.	cause_general
Liebing argued that German companies should seize opportunities to cooperate with their Chinese counterparts rather than seeing them as rivals.	distant_evaluation
Liebing said that expanding African infrastructure provision was the key to raising productivity and promoting sustainable growth and better international cooperation.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"""Package solutions"" offered by China in this context offered Germans an exemplary model of how to boost economic growth in Africa, he said."	distant_evaluation
"""We should stop viewing China exclusively as a competitor."	distant_evaluation
"First successful examples show how Chinese and German firms can achieve mutually-beneficial outcomes in Africa,"" Liebing told press."	distant_evaluation
"""The only truly-sustainable form of developmental aid is to create local jobs"", he added."	distant_evaluation
The German-African Business Association was founded in 1934 to support firms from Germany in their commercial involvement in African countries.	distant_historical
Germany's exports to Africa currently account for around two percent of its total volume of international trade.	cause_general
BERLIN, Aug. 22 (Xinhua) -- German companies are planning to ramp up their investments on the African continent during the coming years, president of the German-African Business Association Stefan Liebing announced on Wednesday.	main
"""We are already witnessing a significant increase in the investment- and trading activity with our neighboring continent,"" Liebing told reporters."	cause_general
According to an estimate by the association, new investments by German companies in Africa will rise by more than 10 percent to a total of more than one billion euros (1.15 billion U.S. dollars).	distant_expectations_consequences
Liebing explained that at least part of the increase reflected recent changes in the German regulatory landscape.	distant_evaluation
Back in June, the German government announced that it would ease the conditions which must be met for domestic small- and mid-sized enterprises (SMEs) to access export guarantees in trade with certain African countries.	cause_general
Thomas Bareiss, secretary of state in the ministry for the economy, said at the time that closer economic ties between Germany and African nations were a key priority of Chancellor Angela Merkel's governing cabinet.	distant_evaluation
Towards this end, Berlin has taken steps to lower the insurance excess shouldered by these firms or the banks they work with in international trade between Germany and African states.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-06-19 10:26:12|Editor: Liangyu	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, June 19 (Xinhua) -- A spokesperson of China's Ministry of Commerce (MOC) said Tuesday that if the United States loses its rationality and unveils another list of Chinese products for additional tariffs, China will have no choice but to take comprehensive measures combining quantitative and qualitative ones to resolutely strike back.	main
After unveiling plans to impose additional tariffs on Chinese goods worth around 50 billion U.S. dollars, the United States went even further by threatening to identify 200 billion U.S. dollars worth of Chinese products for additional tariffs.	cause_specific
"""Such practice of imposing extreme pressure and blackmailing is contrary to the consensus the two sides have reached through rounds of consultations, and disappoints the international community,"" the spokesperson said."	main
"""The trade war waged by the United States is against both the law of the market and the development trend of today' s world."	main
"It undermines the interests of the Chinese and American people, the interests of companies and the interests of the people all over the world,"" said the spokesperson."	main
The response taken by China aims to safeguard and defend not only the interests of the Chinese nation and the people, but also free trade regime and the common interests of mankind, said the spokesperson.	main
No matter how external environment changes, China will follow its established rhythm, stick to the vision of making development people-centered, resolutely advance reform and opening up, resolutely promote high-quality economic development, and accelerate the development of a modern economy, said the spokesperson.	main
Xinhua Silk Road Information Service| 2017-11-30 15:39:37|Editor: Lu Hui	error
With the launch of the Belt and Road Initiative, Suning has embraced the new space and new opportunities for its international development.	distant_evaluation
The big consumption ecosphere cultivated by Suning has been going global.	cause_general
Suning is actively cooperating with the countries along the Belt and Road.	cause_general
(Ceremony of Suning Group’s selection into Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project)	cause_general
At the ceremony, the two sides announced that they will carry out all-round strategic cooperation in terms of brand story, overseas communication, brand promotion and big events to jointly enhance influence of Suning at home and abroad.	distant_expectations_consequences
Cooperation with Xinhua News Agency this time will produce an assembly effect of their superior resources and release much stronger brand potential energy.	distant_expectations_consequences
Suning looks forward to joining hands with Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project to send message of Suning together to the world and show cultural confidence of the Chinese national brands to the world, according to Sun Weimin, vice chairman of Suning Commerce Group.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Yang Chunguang, former deputy director of State Administration of Civil Service, president of the Fifth Council of the China Association for Promoting International Economic & Technical Cooperation (CAPC) and member of the 12th CPPCC National Committee addresses the signing ceremony.)	cause_general
Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project, launched at exactly the right time, offers an effective channel for the excellent Chinese enterprises to further expand the brand influence, said Yang Chunguang, former deputy director of State Administration of Civil Service, president of the Fifth Council of the China Association for Promoting International Economic & Technical Cooperation (CAPC) and member of the 12th CPPCC National Committee at the signing ceremony.	distant_evaluation
(Wei Jianguo, former vice minister of Commerce and vice president of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, addresses the signing ceremony.)	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Chinese enterprises and Chinese brands need Xinhua’s strong credibility, dissemination power and influence when they go global.	distant_evaluation
In the future, more Chinese brands will join the National Brands Project, which requires Xinhua and all media staff to disseminate the Chinese brands in an innovative manner and let the global market share value of the Chinese brands, said Wei Jianguo, former vice minister of Commerce and vice president of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges at the signing ceremony.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Pan Qingzhong, executive dean of Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University addresses the signing ceremony.)	cause_general
The National Brands Project is an important tool to help the national brands to go global, and is far-reaching to promote the brands power strategy and build the “Great Wall” of the national economy, Pan Qingzhong, executive dean of Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University addressed the signing ceremony.	distant_evaluation
(Zhang Yongping, general manager of General Manager Office of Xinhua News Agency addresses the ceremony.)	cause_general
As a national and worldwide news agency, Xinhua has the responsibility to offer all-round support for the brands power strategy, help Chinese enterprises build national brands, and cultivate more “century-old shops”, said Zhang Yongping, general manager of General Manager Office of Xinhua News Agency.	distant_evaluation
(Source: Xinhua Silk Road Information Service)	error
BEIJING, Nov. 30 (Xinhua) -- Suning Group was selected into Xinhua News Agency's National Brands Project in Beijing on Thursday.	main
Suning therefore has become the 19th corporate member of the project, which was launched to promote China's brands power strategy.	cause_general
Liu Zhengrong, vice president and secretary general of Xinhua News Agency, and Sun Weimin, vice chairman of Suning Commerce Group, attended the signing ceremony of the two parties.	cause_general
Founded in 1990, Suning is a leading commerce enterprise in China.	distant_historical
Over the past two decades, Suning has fixed the corporate mission of “leading the industrial ecology and creating quality life” and constantly extended its businesses.	distant_evaluation
At present, it has formed a pattern of coordinated development of six industries including commerce, real estate, financial services, media and entertainment, sports, and investment.	distant_evaluation
In July 2017, Suning Commerce Group under Suning Group was included in the list of the Fortune Global 500 Companies.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-02 15:25:40|Editor: ZX	error
Di Maio's visit was very well-received, Chinese Ambassador to Italy Li Ruiyu told participants .	distant_evaluation
Chinese Ambassador to Italy Li Ruiyu, who attended the meeting, told Xinhua that the new Italian government attaches great importance to bilateral relations, thus the Task Force came into being.	distant_evaluation
"""Italy and China were linked by the ancient silk road in the past."	distant_historical
"We expect the Task Force to help strengthen the two countries' cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative and contributing to a closer EU-China relationship,"" Li added."	distant_expectations_consequences
"Foreign Undersecretary Manlio Di Stefano said that ""China is a country of priority interest"" and among the Task Force objectives are ""more access to the Chinese market, better quality products and more investments."""	distant_evaluation
"""We want to set up a systematic approach,"" explained Geraci, adding that the China Task Force will be subdivided into four general focus areas covering cooperation with China in the third world, China's macro economy and politics, high technology and chemicals, as well as culture and education."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""This could be a way to acquire mutual trust and gain access to the Chinese market,"" Geraci said."	distant_expectations_consequences
China's immense domestic market demands more and more quality goods and represents opportunities Italy should not miss, both in terms of exports and in attracting investments, according to Geraci.	distant_evaluation
According to the Economic Development Ministry, Italy wants to roll out incentives to attract more Chinese investments, which have totaled 25 billion euros (almost 29 billion U.S. dollars) in the past decade.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Economic Development Undersecretary Michele Geraci speaks during the inaugural meeting of Italy's brand-new China Task Force in Rome, Italy, Oct. 1, 2018.	error
"The inaugural meeting of Italy's brand-new China Task Force, which aims to position the European country as ""a privileged partner"" in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), was held here at the Economic Development Ministry on Monday."	error
(Xinhua/Cheng Tingting)	error
"ROME, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- The inaugural meeting of Italy's brand-new China Task Force, which aims to position the European country as ""a privileged partner"" in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), was held here at the Economic Development Ministry on Monday."	main
The Task Force, first announced in August, is meant to boost economic relations with China.	cause_general
Proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2013, the BRI aims to build a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia with Africa and Europe along the ancient trade routes of the Silk Road.	cause_general
Italian Ambassador to China Ettore Sequi said that since taking office in June, Italy's new government has made three high-level visits to China, sending Finance Minister Giovanni Tria, Economic Development Undersecretary Michele Geraci, and most recently, Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio, who also serves as economic development minister.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-28 23:35:16|Editor: yan	error
There were no immediate signs Tria would follow through with his threat on Friday, but the Italian media reported it could still happen.	distant_expectations_consequences
In absolute terms, the difference between Tria's 1.6-perfect deficit promise and the 2.4-percent target announced Thursday is around 175 billion euros (205 billion U.S. dollars) in extra spending.	cause_general
That figure is more than the gross domestic products of 15 of the 28 EU member states, including Greece, the only EU country more indebted than Italy.	cause_general
Italy has the third largest economy in the 19-nation euro currency union.	cause_general
Luigi Di Maio, Italy's minister of labor and the head of the Five-Star Movement, said the extra spending would pay for itself through higher economic growth.	distant_evaluation
"""We must explain to markets that there are so many smart investments inside this 2.4-percent figures that we will be able to grow the economy as much as we want to,"" Di Maio said in a press conference."	distant_evaluation
But analysts were less convinced.	distant_evaluation
"""Before the figure was announced I thought that Tria's 1.6-percent figure was not likely, but that 2.4 or above would mean outright war with the European Union,"" Riccardo Puglisi, a political economist with the University of Pavia, told Xinhua."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""At close to 2.0-percent, it would have been a skirmish."	distant_expectations_consequences
"But 2.4 percent is bad news."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
Ugo Arrigo, an economics and statistics professor with Bicocca University in Milan, said the decision was likely based on politics and not economics.	distant_evaluation
"""Really, the deficit should have been 1.6 or 1.7 percent,"" Arrigo said in an interview."	distant_evaluation
"""Above 2 is trouble because it means the government is putting electoral promises above sustainability."""	distant_evaluation
Among the costly promises put forth by the four-month-old government: a universal basic income for all Italian citizens, an earlier retirement age for workers, and a flat tax for Italian companies.	distant_expectations_consequences
The spending measures alone are expected to add at least 100 billion euros to the deficit.	distant_expectations_consequences
Financial markets responded badly to the news: both because of the fiscal implications of the 2019 budget and the likelihood it could ultimately destabilize the government, especially if Tria stepped down.	cause_general
In trading Friday, the first session after the latest developments, bond yields surged as much as 12 percent higher, reaching a yield of 3.35 percent in midday trading for the benchmark ten-year bonds.	main_consequence
That is approaching their highest yield since 2014.	cause_general
Higher yields for bonds reflect investor nervousness, and they increase the government's costs when it borrows money.	distant_evaluation
The MIB-30 index of blue chip stocks also took a hit, falling 3.8 percent, with 27 of 30 issues losing ground.	main_consequence
ROME, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- Financial markets were on their heels Friday, a day after Italy's populist, anti-establishment government announced it would widen its budget deficit in order to finance costly electoral promises.	main
Even the euro currency took a step back, losing around 1.5 percent of its value against the U.S. dollar, its weakest level in three weeks.	cause_general
The full budget, including details for the spending plans, will be submitted to the EU next month.	distant_expectations_consequences
Brussels could reject the measure, which would send the government back to the drawing board to restart negotiations.	distant_expectations_consequences
Thursday's blueprint says the government would widen the 2019 budget deficit to an estimated 2.4 percent of the gross domestic product, almost surely putting the country on a collision course with the European Union (EU).	main
The EU has called for Italy to focus on paying down the government's deficit, the highest in the bloc in absolute terms and the second highest when measured as a percentage of gross domestic product.	cause_general
The 2.4-percent figure is around three times higher than the estimates put forward by the previous government, which ended its term May 31.	cause_general
It is also far above the 1.6-perfect figure promised by Minister of Finance Giovanni Tria.	cause_general
Still, it is below the more than 3.0-percent deficit the government said it wanted in August.	cause_general
Tria, a political independent not associated with either of the political parties backing the Giuseppe Conte government, reportedly vowed to resign if he lost the battle over the budget.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-27 00:14:01|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
But due to the trade frictions the United States has initiated with other countries, overseas demand for U.S. agricultural products has tanked, driving down the prices for soybeans and pork, among others.	distant_evaluation
"""I'm making 50 bushels an acre of soybeans, but that's 50 bushels per acre at a two-dollar decrease,"" Whitt said."	distant_anecdotal
"""I've done absolutely nothing wrong and lost 100 dollars an acre in profit."""	distant_anecdotal
"""I'd like to carry our administration with me when I go to cash my grain checks and watch me deposit those checks and then immediately turn around and drive across town to my lender, whom I have to pay off except I'm missing 20, 30, 40 percent of that money to be able to pay off that operating loan,"" Whitt lamented."	distant_anecdotal
Aside from damages, the uncertainties that come with the tariffs are also making farmers very uncomfortable.	distant_evaluation
"""Nobody has a crystal ball."	distant_anecdotal
I don't think our officials in Washington have a crystal ball at all at this point right now.	distant_anecdotal
"I think we're just kind of flying by the seat of our pants,"" Whitt said, in an apparent jab at the U.S. government."	distant_anecdotal
The situation is almost like before the 2008 recession, Whitt said, adding that now people are just as discouraged to invest and hire as they were 10 years ago.	distant_anecdotal
Whitt said that as a farmer, he shouldn't be diverting his energy to learn about foreign policy or trade, but the status quo has left him with no choice.	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
"""I don't like politics, but I have to get into politics,"" Whitt said, adding that Washington's ever-changing positions and frequent threats have made the situation more challenging."	distant_anecdotal
"Whitt also rejected the idea of subsidies, calling them a ""band-aid handout."""	distant_anecdotal
Accompanying Whitt on stage was Steven Livingston, a professor of political science at Middle Tennessee State University, who said farms are not the only ones hit by the tariffs in the state.	distant_evaluation
All the leading industries in the state, such as the automotive, chemicals, paper, plastic and boat manufacturing industries will all be negatively impacted by higher trade barriers, Livingston said, estimating a 1-billion-dollar loss for the state in foreign trade.	distant_expectations_consequences
The message resonated with those off stage.	distant_evaluation
Josh Beatty, who owns a real estate company, said he came to the event to learn more about the potential damage of tariffs.	distant_anecdotal
"""A lot of the lumber and steel I use in construction are imported, so I want to be prepared for any potential changes,"" Beatty said, who was on his first visit to Nashville from Minneapolis."	distant_anecdotal
"The gathering, one in a series of town hall meetings under the banner ""Tariffs hurt the Heartland,"" was organized by the activist groups Americans for Free Trade and Farmers for Free Trade."	cause_general
Brian Kuehl, executive director of Farmers for Free Trade, told Xinhua that the purpose of the meetings was to raise awareness of the impacts of tariffs and trade frictions and provide a platform for people to share their opinions and stories.	distant_evaluation
"""The reason we are focusing on the heartland is because the heartland is hurt by the trade war and in the 2016 elections the heartland supported President (Donald) Trump."	distant_evaluation
"NASHVILLE, the United States, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- ""They should put a 'federal tariff tax' on receipts, so people can understand that they are ultimately paying for the price of trade wars,"" Glenn Anderson, who runs the Tennessee Medical Cannabis Trade Association, said at a recent gathering here."	distant_evaluation
"We hope President Trump will also support the heartland,"" Kuehl said."	distant_expectations_consequences
The gathering, held at the Tennessee Brew Works last Thursday, was aimed at voicing concerns and raising awareness over recent tariff measures from Washington.	main
During the event, speakers as well as members of the audience shared personal experiences, observations, and at times satire regarding how the tariffs negatively impacted their lives.	cause_general
One speaker on the podium was 38-year-old farmer Brandon Whitt, who manages a 200-year-old farm, Batey Farms, not far from Nashville.	distant_anecdotal
Whitt, an eighth-generation farmer, said the abrupt imposition of tariffs this year made him fear that he might have to give up his farm.	distant_anecdotal
Batey Farms produces a variety of crops, such as soybeans, corn and wheat, and raises a large number of pigs.	distant_anecdotal
A large part of the farm's produce ends up in overseas markets.	distant_anecdotal
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-05 21:15:59|Editor: xuxin	error
This, Radier said, serves to ensure continued business growth and development for the tourism industry in Kenya.	distant_expectations_consequences
She said the expo which has drawn the participation of travel trade partners from across the continent has helped Kenya to be part of efforts to grow a unified brand for Africa as a destination.	distant_evaluation
According to the UN World Tourism Organization, the number of Africa outbound market will reach 62 million by 2030 as the continent gradually emerges not only as a tourism destination but also as a tourist source market.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to statistics from KTB, Africa is currently Kenya's second biggest source market by region, having contributed 29 percent of total tourist arrivals to Kenya in 2017.	cause_general
Kenya has stepped up its marketing blitz to woo key source markets in the wake of a decrease in tourist arrivals occasioned by a spate of insecurity brought about by acts of terrorism from al-Shabab and travel advisories issued by countries that provide key source markets.	cause_general
According to KTB, Uganda is Kenya's top tourism source market in Africa, as it commanded 6.4 percent of arrivals in 2017.	cause_general
There were 61,542 arrivals from Uganda in 2017 up from 51,023 in 2016, according to data from KTB.	distant_historical
Tourism is the second largest source of foreign exchange revenue for Kenya after tea, with the main tourist attractions being photo safaris through national parks and game reserves, though the country has been diversifying to other areas like eco-tourism, conference tourism and cultural tourism.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
NAIROBI, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Kenya's tourism marketers had laid out plans to regard Africa as a key regional market to grow its tourism business, a senior official said.	main
Betty Radier, Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) CEO, said on Thursday evening that Nairobi is also partnering with the rest of East Africa to provide a wider offering for travelers from the West African region led by Nigeria.	cause_general
"""We are actively engaging with travel agents and tour operators in Nigeria to expose them to the diverse tourist offering in Kenya and the rest of East Africa that would be of interest to travelers from Nigeria and the rest of West Africa,"" Radier said on the sidelines of the ongoing Magical Kenya Travel Expo in Nairobi."	cause_general
Radier said bilateral discussions were ongoing between the tourism ministries of Kenya and Sierra Leone to step up collaboration and travel from Sierra Leone to Kenya.	cause_general
About 150 tourism buyers and 20 international media personalities are in the country during the 3-day expo, which began on Wednesday.	cause_general
Radier has said the expo has enabled Kenya to bring together players in Africa's tourism sector to get a better insight of the diverse and authentic tourism products that Kenya has to offer.	distant_evaluation
"""We are encouraged that the expo has over the last eight years grown into the ideal platform for business-to-business meetings between leading African products and top-producing global buyers,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
by Xinhua writers Yang Shilong, Pan Lijun	error
"""I don't think that's true,"" Roach said, drawing on his experience when he worked for Morgan Stanley in a joint venture with China Construction Bank."	distant_evaluation
During their tie-up to build China's first investment bank in 1995, the U.S. partner shared its business practices and distribution system.	distant_historical
"""This was a conscious effort on our part to share,"" Roach said."	distant_evaluation
"""We did it voluntarily,"" pointing out that U.S. and other multinational corporations willingly enter into these legally-negotiated arrangements for commercially sound reasons."	distant_evaluation
"The report also accuses China of being the only country to develop a plan like ""Made in China 2025"" for growing its hi-tech industries."	cause_general
According to Roach's research, many countries have been engaged in building strong industries, including Japan, Germany and the United States itself.	distant_evaluation
"""It's really hypocritical for the U.S. to criticize China for utilizing industrial policies,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
LOSE-LOSE TRADE WAR	distant_evaluation
The punitive U.S. tariff plan targeting China is regarded by many as a unilateral move that poses a threat to global trade.	distant_evaluation
It is consistent with the long-standing tendency to blame trade deficits for loss of manufacturing jobs at home.	distant_evaluation
NEW HAVEN, the United States, April 29 (Xinhua) -- The Trump administration's punitive tariff plan against China is politically biased and makes untrue charges, a U.S. expert has said.	main
"""(Trump) thinks China is responsible for many of the problems that continue to prevent America from being great again,"" Roach said, commenting on the real intention behind the measure."	distant_evaluation
According to his research, in 2017, the United States had a trade deficit with 102 countries.	distant_evaluation
"""We have a multilateral problem,"" the senior economist noted."	distant_evaluation
"""It's wrong to look at one or two pieces as evidence of bilateral problems."""	distant_evaluation
"Calling the U.S.-China trade dispute a serious issue which, if handled improperly, may intensify the risk of a trade war, he emphasized that ""globalization is being win-win while trade wars are lose-lose."""	distant_evaluation
REGULAR EXCHANGES VITAL	distant_evaluation
Fears of a trade war shook the global stock and currency markets immediately after Trump's announcement on March 22, with the benchmark S&P 500 Index slumping the most since early February and the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping nearly 3 percent.	cause_general
On March 23, Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 Index plunged 4.5 percent to 20,671.11 and South Korea's Kospi tumbled 3.1 percent.	cause_general
in China, both the Shanghai Composite and Hang Seng lost over 3 percent.	cause_general
Benchmarks in Southeast Asia and Australia fell too.	cause_general
"""It's more political noise than a genuine strategy,"" Stephen Roach, former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia and senior fellow at Yale University's Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, told Xinhua in an interview."	main
Experts say there are many areas for cooperation between the United States and China, but the risks of a trade war would make it very difficult to achieve.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""A secretariat that contains experts from both sides to meet and exchange views and analysis on a regular basis is a better way to address the disputes,"" Roach said."	distant_evaluation
He also suggested that both parties develop better rules and guidelines on market access and utilize technology.	distant_evaluation
"The American economist said the so-called ""Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Rights"" is wide of the mark in some key areas."	distant_evaluation
Section 301 is a measure under the U.S. Trade Act of 1974 that allows the president to take action, including retaliation, if an investigation finds foreign trade practices are burdening or restricting U.S. commerce or are unreasonable or discriminatory.	cause_general
On March 22, President Donald Trump signed a memorandum that could impose tariffs on up to 60 billion U.S. dollars of imports from China and restrict Chinese investment in the United States.	cause_general
UNTRUE ACCUSATIONS	distant_evaluation
"The report by the U.S. Trade Representative accuses China of ""forced technology transfer"" in joint ventures."	cause_general
It says U.S. companies have to turn over proprietary technologies and operating systems in order to do business in China.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-04 15:57:02|Editor: xuxin	error
"Secondly, at a micro transactional level, to highlight specific challenges that can be addressed in the shorter term,"" the ADB said."	cause_general
"The ADB added ""Elements of effective regulation outlined in the first level are scored out of 10 on seven criteria: consistency (4), risk alignment (3), design (2), stakeholder communication (5), technology and data (5), enforcement (4), and quality control (3)."	cause_general
"These criteria are used to assess five working-level issues in the second level."""	cause_general
The ADB said the scorecard is based on feedback from industry leaders and regulators and will complement existing tools such as the Financial Action Task Force's recommendations against money laundering and terrorist financing.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The scores are illustrative and directional,"" said Beck, stressing the need to have ""better ways of addressing these issues, and we see the scorecard as the start of a process of engagement on this difficult subject."""	distant_evaluation
ADB's Trade Finance Program (TFP) closes market gaps by providing guarantees and loans to over 200 partner banks to support trade, helping companies across Asia to engage in import and export activities.	distant_evaluation
In 2017, TFP supported 4.5 billion U.S. dollars in trade through 3,505 transactions.	distant_historical
Its financial support is complemented by regular workshops and seminars to increase knowledge and expertise in trade finance products, anti-money laundering, and risk management.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
MANILA, Sept. 4 (Xinhua) -- The Asian Development Bank (ADB) launched on Tuesday its first Trade Finance Scorecard, a new tool to address market gaps stemming from the unintended consequences of global measures to fight money-laundering and terrorism.	main
"""Preventing criminals and terrorists from exploiting the global financial system is critically important,"" said ADB's Head of Trade and Supply Chain Finance Steven Beck."	distant_evaluation
"""But these regulations can also undermine jobs and growth at small businesses and developing countries."	distant_evaluation
"This new scorecard will open a channel of dialogue among stakeholders to help prevent crime and terrorism while financing growth and job creation,"" Beck said."	distant_expectations_consequences
The ADB said the Trade Finance Scorecard focuses on issues related to the interpretation, implementation, and compliance with regulations designed to curb money laundering and the financing of terrorism in the context of correspondent banking and trade financing.	distant_evaluation
"""The scores are assigned on two levels."	cause_general
Firstly, at a macro level, to identify characteristics of effective regulation that could be strengthened.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-28 20:56:15|Editor: Li Xia	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese government on Wednesday decided to carry out an assessment of its business environment, according to a statement released after a State Council executive meeting presided over by Premier Li Keqiang.	main
The assessment will focus on areas closely related to market participants, including starting a business, getting a construction permit, obtaining a loan, paying taxes, going through bankruptcy procedures and protecting intellectual property rights.	main
The country will push for rolling out more hard measures for improving the business environment to maintain China's attraction for domestic and foreign investment, the statement said.	main
China will expand the implementation of practices that prove to be effective in facilitating the operations of enterprises from a number of local areas through to the whole country, according to the statement.	main
It was also decided at the meeting that measures will be taken to increase the supply and improve the quality of elderly care services.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-04 18:45:47|Editor: Yurou	error
"Regarding the expo as ""an important platform to connect China to the world market, which will be beneficial to both China and worldwide business,"" Diele said that it is also ""a strong proof that China is willing to share the market and promote the globalization of trade, as well as increase the global economy."""	distant_evaluation
China-Sweden cooperation has a long history with two-way trade starting as early as in the 16th century.	cause_general
In 1950, Sweden became the first Western country to establish diplomatic ties with China.	distant_historical
Over the past 68 years, thanks to the joint efforts of the Chinese and Swedish governments and the business community, the two countries continued to make achievements in economic and trade cooperation, according to the Counselor's Office.	distant_evaluation
"""Sweden remains China's largest trading partner and provider of capital and technology in the Nordic region,"" Han Xiaodong, China's Economic and Commercial Counselor in Sweden, told Xinhua."	cause_general
"""In 2017, bilateral trade increased to 15 billion U.S. dollars, with Sweden standing on the surplus side for the first time in 25 years, which highlights the increasing popularity of high-quality Swedish products in the Chinese market,"" he said."	distant_historical
"""Two-way investment is on the rise, with Swedish companies investing up to 4.85 billion U.S. dollars in over 1,400 projects in China."	cause_general
"Chinese investment in Sweden started late, but grew very fast,"" Han said, citing the Geely-Volvo project as a successful example."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
STOCKHOLM, Nov. 4 (Xinhua) -- Swedish companies look to the upcoming China International Import Expo (CIIE) to promote their products in the lucrative Chinese market and enhance business ties with China.	main
According to Economic and Commercial Counselor's Office of the Chinese Embassy in Sweden, 14 Swedish companies including prominent brands such as Hasselblad, Volvo Cars, SAS, etc., registered their participation to the CIIE, to be held in Shanghai on Nov. 5-10.	cause_general
"""We believe this Expo would offer a valuable platform which Hasselblad can fully showcase our products and innovative technology to the world,"" said Jon Diele, Vice President of Global Sales and Marketing at Hasselblad, a Swedish camera systems manufacturer."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""We expect that more people are able to know Hasselblad, learn our products and experience the image quality of Hasselblad cameras,"" Diele told Xinhua."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""China is a growing market for Hasselblad, which has great potential to be developed."	distant_evaluation
"Hasselblad's market share in China is increasing year by year."""	distant_evaluation
he added.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-13 00:21:55|Editor: ZX	error
The reform will help improve the business environment, energize the market and catalyze stronger development.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Decoupling business licenses and operation permits is the right way to go, as it meets both corporate and public needs."	distant_evaluation
"It is a necessary part of the reform of our market economy system, and a step we must take,"" Li said."	distant_evaluation
The Wednesday meeting announced that starting from November 10 this year, an approach of reduced number of required permits and certificates after receiving business licenses will be applied nationwide to the first batch of some 100 business-related government approval items.	main
Items that are no longer necessary for administrative approval or are eligible for self-improvement through market forces will become approval-free or require registration only.	main
The practice of notification commitment shall be applied to those government review items that need to stay, yet any non-compliance with the permitting requirements can be redressed by government oversight.	main
Under such practice, a market entity shall be approved for business activities when it commits to complying with all the permitting requirements.	main
A company violating this commitment shall see its license revoked and face heavy penalties.	main
Improved access services will be applied to the government review items concerning public security and public health where notification commitment does not fit.	main
However, efforts will be made to reduce the required materials, streamline procedures, and cut the reviewing time to keep the permitting process transparent and make market access easier for start-up and innovative businesses.	main
Video Player Close	error
"""It is important to put greater emphasis on implementing new, intensified efforts for compliance oversight while easing market access in advancing the reform of decoupling business licenses and operation permits, and enhance fair supervision,"" Li said."	distant_evaluation
The Wednesday meeting also decided to cancel the required production permits for 14 types of industrial goods.	main
Production permits for goods relating to public security, public health and environmental protection shall be replaced by mandatory certification.	main
A list of these products will be compiled and released to the public, and certification charges shall be funded by public finance.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""This reform of decoupling business licenses and operation permits should be well-paced as realities differ across the country."	distant_evaluation
"The reform may move faster in places where conditions are fully in place, yet no one-size-fits-all approach should be applied,"" Li stressed."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""This is another test on our ability to govern."""	distant_evaluation
BEIJING, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- China will roll out the decoupling of business licenses and operation permits as a nationwide program starting this November, and further cut production permits for industrial goods by over one third in an effort to ease corporate burdens, the State Council's executive meeting chaired by Premier Li Keqiang decided on Wednesday.	main
The Chinese government places high importance on the reform of decoupling business licenses and operation permits, which are both required for starting business operations, as an important step in fostering a law-based, enabling business environment up to international standards.	cause_general
Premier Li Keqiang stressed the imperative to advance this reform, making it clear at the plenary session of the National People's Congress last March that the reform will be introduced nationwide this year.	distant_historical
He put particular emphasis on resolving the problem of companies being unable to operate even after they have received business licenses.	distant_historical
This reform was piloted late 2015 in the Pudong New Area of Shanghai, targeting 116 items of administrative approval.	distant_historical
It was later implemented in all of Shanghai.	cause_general
It was pointed out at the Wednesday meeting that introducing the decoupling nationwide constitutes a key step in implementing the broader reform of government functions.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-08 18:42:51|Editor: Yurou	error
"For retailers, tariffs are very disruptive to complex global supply chains,"" U.S. National Retail Federation (NRF) spokeswoman Bethany Aronhalt told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
"""Right now, retailers are assessing their supply chains to determine possible alternative sources, but for certain products, China is the only source that exists,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
The NRF is the world's largest retail trade association representing discount and department stores, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries and regions.	cause_general
"The group, the spokeswoman said, holds that ""tariffs and the retaliatory actions that follow are a threat to just about every sector of the U.S. economy, including manufacturing, agriculture, technology, retail, energy and more."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"Adjusting supply chains is ""not that simple in a global economy."	distant_evaluation
"Businesses make production or sourcing decisions months and years in advance, and they rely on very complex supply chains,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""Retailers and other importers could not easily or quickly switch to domestic sources because they do not exist on the scale that would be needed,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""Even if there were to be an eventual switch to U.S. sourcing, it would take years to build up a base to support it."	distant_evaluation
And for many products subject to tariffs, China is the sole source of U.S. imports.	distant_evaluation
"No alternative sources exist,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
WHAT ARE CHINA'S ADVANTAGES?	distant_evaluation
As the new wave of tariffs which came on top of the 50 billion dollars' worth already taxed earlier this year begins to make China look more expensive, few other places around the world could match China's advantages -- its highly skilled labor and the reliability of the supply chains.	distant_evaluation
Before the tariffs, some labor-intensive manufacturers have already started leaving China as the country's wages have risen for the past 10 to 15 years in a row, Mary Lovely, an American professor of economics and an expert on trade with China, told Xinhua in an interview.	cause_general
They have already seen apparel, footwear, toys, sporting goods and some electronics moving elsewhere in Asia.	cause_general
"""These are things that we would expect because as China develops, the rest of East Asia or the poorer countries of East Asia also expect to be pulled along with that train,"" said Lovely, who is a professor of economics at Syracuse University and a nonresident senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics."	distant_evaluation
"""China is an engine of growth for the region, so none of that is surprising,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""The tariffs will likely accelerate that,"" she said, adding that firms that are thinking about moving will probably go ahead because these additional 25 percent tariffs will make it very tough for them to compete with subcontractors in other countries that won't face these tariffs."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""And that puts competitive pressure on China so it will accelerate changes in global value chains,"" she said."	distant_expectations_consequences
But not all firms can do that, she said.	distant_evaluation
For one thing, companies produce or purchase higher value items from China, which are made by more highly skilled labor and are reflecting relationships that have developed, she said.	distant_evaluation
Mary Lovely, an American professor of economics and an expert on trade with China, speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Washington D.C., the United States, on Sept. 26, 2018.	error
"""Many of those supply chains are certified by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) in the United States or other regulatory bodies and moving them is difficult,"" she said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""So there's a great deal of uncertainty and firms are really in doubt as to what they should do because moving the supply chain is costly."	distant_evaluation
"Before you want to do that, you want to make sure that it's something that you really need to do,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"She warned that ""the uncertainty causes a kind of paralysis on investment and we are already seeing some slowdown in investment flows."""	distant_expectations_consequences
According to data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis released in July, net foreign direct investment dropped to 51.3 billion dollars in the first quarter, a 37 percent fall from the same quarter in 2017 and a 65 percent decline from the first quarter of 2016.	cause_general
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES FOR U.S.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Texas-based arts and crafts retail chain, Michaels, has warned in early September that retail prices could be hit by the U.S. administration's new round of tariffs on Chinese imports.	distant_expectations_consequences
An estimated 400 million dollars of its product costs would be subject to the new round of tariffs, Chief Executive Officer Chuck Rubin told a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. retail conference in New York on Sept. 5.	distant_expectations_consequences
"But the cost of goods to fill its shelves is not what annoys the largest American arts and crafts retail chain most as Michaels has ""a lot of levers"" it can pull to mitigate the impact, Rubin said."	distant_evaluation
"While the company with a large bulk of its goods coming from China is looking into shifting manufacturing to other countries, he said, ""There is virtually no possibility of moving manufacturing into the U.S."""	distant_expectations_consequences
To go with Xinhua Headlines: Trump's tariffs disruptive to supply chains, but shifting them away from China won't be easy (Xinhua/Hu Yousong)	error
"Companies that are forced to rethink their sourcing may find their hands tied as ""supply chains are built by companies with great care and substantial analysis,"" said Professor Robert Sicina, executive in residence of Kogod School of Business at the Washington-based American University."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""To disrupt them is to negatively impact the confidence firms have in the U.S. having a consistent policy,"" Sicina told Xinhua in an interview."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Without consistency, firms will move their supply chains away from the U.S., not towards it."	distant_expectations_consequences
"This is just one example of the unintended consequences of President (Donald) Trump's actions,"" said Sicina, who has 30 years of experience in senior executive positions at big banks and various entrepreneurial endeavors."	distant_evaluation
"""The supply chain is always going to move to where the economics are best,"" he said, adding that ""the economics are overwhelmingly in favor of China."""	distant_evaluation
"Another major, long-term unintended consequence, Sicina said, is that ""foreign investment in the U.S. will also be disrupted because of the tariffs."""	distant_expectations_consequences
When investment flows into the United States, foreign investors have to consider its trade policies, as extra tariffs will impact investors' ability to import raw materials and export their products, Sicina said.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Trump's trade war is to curb foreign investment in the future, because they're going to lack confidence that the U.S. will play by the rules, because it's now breaking the rules of fair trade in expectation of cutting a better deal with China,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
NEW YORK, Oct. 8 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. administration's tariffs on Chinese products, which expanded to an additional 200 billion U.S. dollars' worth of goods in September, are forcing businesses to rethink their supply chains.	main
But given China's comparative advantages as well as cost and market rules, it would not be easy to shift the supply chains away from China, U.S. trade experts have told Xinhua.	distant_expectations_consequences
CHINA: ONLY SOURCE OF IMPORTS FOR MANY PRODUCTS	distant_evaluation
"""Tariffs are taxes that raise costs for businesses and consumers."	distant_evaluation
Families will see higher prices for countless products.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-08 22:12:59|Editor: zh	error
Maternal and baby products, cosmetics and household products remained the best sellers.	cause_specific
Tmall's cross-border turnover grew over 100 percent year-on-year during the holiday.	cause_specific
Chinese consumers pay close attention to the quality of products when placing orders.	distant_evaluation
A survey of 4,000 NetEase users showed that 34 percent only buy high quality products while 66 percent consider price only after quality.	cause_general
In offline shopping, Yintai department store, a famous retail chain, saw surging sales.	cause_specific
In the first three days of the holiday, customer volume and sales of Yintai's department stores across China grew by 30 percent annually.	cause_specific
Freshhema's store in Hangzhou, a national seafood retail chain, welcomed 80,000 visitors on Oct 1.	cause_specific
Total sales of Freshhema's stores across China were up over 500 percent.	cause_specific
In addition to food consumption, other recreational spending across China also increased.	cause_specific
For example, money spent on indoor amusement parks rose by 50 percent.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
Chinese people's spending during the holiday was geared towards younger consumers, diversified consumption and quality-driven shopping, according to Alibaba.	distant_evaluation
HANGZHOU, Oct. 8 (Xinhua) -- China saw strong consumption during the seven-day national holiday, which concluded yesterday, with an upsurge in online shopping, according to Alibaba, China's leading e-commerce giant, and other online retailers.	main
Spending on smart products was the highlight, and intelligent appliances were the most popular online products, according to data released by Alibaba's Tmall.	cause_specific
For example, the sales of smart robots and portable translators rose 332 percent and 361 percent respectively year-on-year.	cause_specific
"""Consumption during the national holiday was in line with Alibaba's market expectation since 2018,"" said Jin Ke, director of Alibaba's Taobao."	distant_evaluation
"""Online spending remains robust."""	distant_evaluation
Chinese people also spent more money on cross-border online shopping.	cause_specific
NetEase, China's leading cross-border e-business platform, continued its double-digit growth.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-24 21:21:44|Editor: Liangyu	error
They have promoted market competition and motivated Chinese firms to improve their technology and management.	distant_evaluation
At the same time, the United States has gained access to a wide range of business opportunities such as cross-border investment and entry into the China market, which have played a big part in driving economic growth, improving consumer welfare, and upgrading the economic structure in the United States.	distant_evaluation
The white paper said that China is firmly committed to protecting the lawful rights and interests of foreign businesses in China, including building an open and transparent foreign-related legal system, improving the business environment, and providing better, higher-quality services to businesses from all countries operating and investing in China.	main
China respects international business practices, observes the rules of the World Trade Organization, and treats all businesses registered in China equally.	distant_evaluation
China encourages market entities including foreign businesses to engage in various forms of cooperation, and stands committed to creating a level playing field in the market.	distant_evaluation
The white paper said the Chinese government pays close attention to the legitimate concerns of foreign investors, and stands ready to respond to and address their specific concerns.	main
China will always protect the lawful rights and interests of foreign investors and foreign-invested businesses, and take firm measures to address violations of their lawful rights and interests in accordance with the law.	distant_evaluation
The white paper said that China will keep improving its laws and regulations on IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) protection, and enhance the quality and efficiency of IPR reviews.	main
"""China protects the lawful IPR of foreign businesses in strict accordance with the law, and takes stern measures to address all types of IPR infringement cases,"" it said."	main
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Sept. 24 (Xinhua) -- Cooperation is the only correct option for China and the United States, and only a win-win approach will lead to a better future, said a white paper released by the Information Office of the State Council on Monday.	main
"The white paper titled ""The Facts and China's Position on China-U.S. Trade Friction"" said that China's position is clear, consistent and firm."	main
China is firmly committed to safeguarding its national dignity and core interests, advancing the sound development of China-U.S. economic and trade relations and protecting the lawful rights and interests of foreign businesses in China, it said.	main
The United States is a major source of foreign investment for China.	cause_general
According to China's Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), by the end of 2017, there were approximately 68,000 U.S.-funded enterprises in China with actualized investment of more than 83 billion U.S. dollars.	distant_historical
China and the United States have both reaped enormous benefits from trade and economic cooperation.	distant_evaluation
American firms have played an exemplary role in China for their Chinese peers in terms of technological innovation, marketing management, and institutional innovation.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-14 14:12:33|Editor: Li Xia	error
Video Player Close	error
HANOI, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- Vietnam has set a target of reaping some 2.4 billion U.S. dollars from exporting tra fish or shark catfish, a common kind of catfish, this year, posting a year-on-year rise of around 9 percent.	main
Vietnam made a total tra fish output of 1.4 million tons in 2018, up 20 percent against 2017, part of which were exported, fetching over 2.2 billion U.S. dollars, up 26.4 percent, according to the Vietnam Tra Fish Association on Thursday.	cause_specific
Specifically, Vietnam gained 549.4 million U.S. dollars from exporting tra fish to the United States last year, up 59.5 percent, and 243.9 million U.S. dollars from shipping the fish to the European Union, up 20.2 percent.	cause_specific
Vietnam's Mekong Delta is striving to regulate tra fish output and improving quality of the fish, partly by preventing unauthorized aquaculture and strictly monitoring the use of chemicals like antibiotics in farming, the association said.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-12 19:06:43|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- China has confidence in its ability to maintain stable trade growth in 2019 thanks to a raft of positive factors, a senior commerce official said Tuesday.	main
The gradual recovery of global economy, China's opening-up efforts and pro-trade policies, accelerating industrial upgrading and improving corporate vitality will lend strong steam to the country's trade growth this year, Chu Shijia, head of the comprehensive department of the Ministry of Commerce, told a conference.	main
Chu revealed that goods trade continued the upward growth momentum in January.	cause_general
China's goods trade totaled 4.62 trillion U.S. dollars last year, up 12.6 percent year on year, faster than that of major trading nations like the United States, Germany and Japan as well as the average rate of major economies.	cause_specific
The country also saw improving trade structure last year, with growing trade with Belt and Road countries, more high-end exports and accelerating imports growth.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-12 14:20:27|Editor: WX	error
Video Player Close	error
SEOUL, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- South Korea's supply in the manufacturing industry, including a production at home and imports, fell last year, marking the first decline since relevant data began to be compiled in 2010.	main
The domestic manufacturing supply shed 0.1 percent in 2018 from a year earlier, after expanding 3.8 percent in the previous year, according to dada released by Statistics Korea on Tuesday.	main
The reduction was attributed to a slowdown in the construction sector, which led to the reduced production in the metal processing industry.	cause_specific
The machinery equipment sector also slumped on weak demand for the semiconductor equipment.	cause_specific
The supply of consumer goods increased 1.6 percent last year, but those for capital and intermediate goods dipped 1.2 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively.	cause_specific
The portion of imports to the total supply in the manufacturing sector was 25.7 percent in 2018, up 0.3 percentage points from a year ago.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-12 16:05:50|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
SINGAPORE, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- Singapore's retail sales decreased by 6 percent year on year in December 2018, compared to a 2.4 percent decrease in November, the Department of Statistics of Singapore said Tuesday.	main
The retail sales decreased by 3.4 percent month on month on a seasonally adjusted basis in December, compared to a 0.1 percent increase in the previous month.	main
The authority said excluding motor vehicles, retail sales of last December dropped by 3 percent year on year and 4.1 percent month on month.	main
Singapore's total retail sales value in December was estimated at 4.3 billion Singapore dollars (about 3.17 billion U.S. dollars).	cause_general
The estimated proportion of online retail sales to total retail sales is 5.5 percent.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the sales of food and beverages increased by 4.5 percent year on year and by 0.6 percent month on month.	main
The sales value was estimated at 925 million Singapore dollars (about 680.93 million U.S. dollars) in December.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-12 19:56:57|Editor: Xiaoxia	error
Video Player Close	error
NAIROBI, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- Kenya's tea production is projected to drop by 12 percent year-on-year in 2019, the country's tea industry regulator said on Tuesday.	main
"""The total production for 2019 is expected to drop to about 416 million kilograms,"" Tea Directorate said in a statement issued in Nairobi."	main
It noted that export volumes are expected to drop by the same margin of 12 percent to reach 422 million kilograms, while earnings are expected to hit a record of 133 billion Kenyan shillings (1.33 billion U.S. dollars).	main
The Tea Directorate said production for 2018 rose 12 percent on a yearly basis to 492.99 million kilograms owing to good weather condition.	cause_general
According to the Tea Directorate, the country exported a total of 474.86 million kilograms of tea in 2018.	cause_general
This was 59.14 million kilograms higher than 415.68 million kilograms exported in 2017.	cause_general
Export earnings increased by 590 million dollars to 1.40 billion dollars in 2018.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-12 20:32:13|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
MADRID, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- Housing sales in Spain rose by 10.1 percent in Spain in 2018 as compared with 2017, according to figures published by the Spanish National Institute of Statistics (INE) on Tuesday.	main
The INE data shows that 515,051 sales took place in 2018, meaning that the housing market has now experienced five years of consecutive growth, although the increase in sales last year was below the 15.4 percent growth in the sector in 2017.	main
Meanwhile, there was an 11.1 percent increase in the purchase of newly-built homes, with 92,520 sales, the highest number since 2014.	main
The regions which saw the highest levels of housing sales were the Valencian Community (eastern Spain) with 2,010 sales per 100,000 inhabitants, followed by the Balearic Islands (1,641) and the autonomous region of Andalusia with 1,537.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-13 15:52:02|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
KUALA LUMPUR, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- Malaysia's services sector total revenue rose 8.4 percent year-on-year to 1,674 billion ringgit (about 412 billion U.S. dollars) in 2018, official data showed Wednesday.	main
The Malaysian Statistics Department said in a statement that revenue for the fourth quarter last year also grew 8.4 percent year-on-year to 433 billion ringgit, mainly driven by wholesale and retail trade, food and beverages and accommodation.	main
The sector engaged with 3.7 million persons in 2018, up 2.6 percent from the previous year.	cause_general
Its total salaries and wages paid increased by 3.8 percent year-on-year to 97 billion ringgit.	cause_general
(1 ringgit equals to 0.25 U.S. dollar)	error
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-13 21:18:19|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
BERLIN, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- The German Bundesliga's revenue has risen to 3.81 billion euros (4.3 billion dollars) in the 2017-18 season, the German football league said on Wednesday.	main
According to the DFL 2019 Economic Report, 17 of the 18 top flight clubs generated revenue of more than 100 million euros for a 13 per cent rise compared with the 2016-2017 season.	cause_specific
Overall, revenue of the 36 Bundesliga and second-division clubs rose for a 14th straight year to 4.42 billion euros, an annual growth rate of 8.6 per cent.	main
"""German professional football has continued its positive development,"" DFL chief executive Christian Seifert said."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-14 09:26:27|Editor: Li Xia	error
New Zealand's third warmest January on record saw Kiwis heading to the beaches rather than to open homes -- houses open to potential buyers, meaning that the number of residential properties sold during January fell by 2.5 percent year-on-year, according to REINZ.	cause_general
(1 U.S. dollar equals to 1.47 NZ dollars)	error
Video Player Close	error
WELLINGTON, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- Two-tiered real estate market continues in New Zealand as five regions see record prices, but Auckland and Canterbury, the two densely populated areas, see price falls, according to the latest data released from the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand (REINZ) on Thursday.	main
January has pointed to a two-tiered real estate market continuing with 14 out of 16 regions experiencing annual increases in the median price for residential properties, while Auckland and Canterbury saw prices fall, REINZ statistics showed.	main
The national median price for residential properties increased by 5.8 percent year on year to 550,000 NZ dollars (373,835 U.S. dollars) in January 2019.	cause_general
Prices for New Zealand excluding Auckland, the country's largest city, increased by 10.1 percent to 473,300 NZ dollars, REINZ said.	cause_general
In Auckland, prices fell 2.4 percent to 800,000 NZ dollars, the lowest median price for the region since February 2016.	main
Canterbury saw a 0.7-percent annual decline in median house prices to 431,900 NZ dollars, it said.	main
The rest of the country has seen strong price growth, including five regions achieving record median prices, said Bindi Norwell, chief executive at REINZ, adding this increase in price once again highlights how the lack of supply is continuing to push up house prices.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-14 10:31:43|Editor: Li Xia	error
(1 U.S. dollar equals to 1.47 New Zealand dollars)	error
Video Player Close	error
WELLINGTON, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- New Zealand food prices rose 1 percent in January 2019 compared with December 2018, New Zealand statistics department Stats NZ said on Thursday.	main
Food prices were up 0.8 percent in the year to January 2019, mainly driven by higher prices for ready-to-eat food, milk, cheese and eggs and restaurant meals, partly offset by lower fruit prices, which was down 5.8 percent, statistics showed.	main
Broccoli prices more than doubled in January 2019, while lettuce prices rose almost 80 percent.	cause_general
The average price of a 350g head of broccoli was 2.76 NZ dollars (1.88 U.S. dollars) in January, up from a near seven-year low of 1.25 NZ dollars in December.	cause_general
"""A bumper December harvest contributed to particularly low broccoli prices in December 2018,"" consumer prices manager Caroline White said in a statement, adding ""As the harvest returned to normal levels in January, we saw a larger than usual price rise."""	distant_evaluation
The price of lettuce in January this year was more than 50 cents a head higher than the same month last year, White said, adding the price of milk also fell to a 19-month low in January 2019, to 3.49 NZ dollars per two-liter bottle of standard dark blue top.	cause_general
"""Supermarket milk prices are highly influenced by the farmgate milk price,"" White said, adding while dairy farmers face tougher times, consumers usually benefit from the lower prices when supermarkets pay less to the suppliers."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-14 19:03:55|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- China will raise the retail prices of gasoline and diesel starting Friday, the country's top economic planner said Thursday.	main
Based on changes in international oil prices, the retail prices of both gasoline and diesel will be raised by 50 yuan (about 7.4 U.S. dollars) per tonne, according to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC).	main
Under the current pricing mechanism, if international crude oil prices change by more than 50 yuan per tonne and remain at that level for 10 working days, the prices of refined oil products such as gasoline and diesel in China will be adjusted accordingly.	cause_general
The NDRC has demanded that major oil companies, including China National Petroleum Corporation, China Petrochemical Corporation and China National Offshore Oil Corporation, should work to ensure stable supply and implement the pricing policy.	cause_general
The economic planner said it would closely monitor the effects of the current pricing mechanism and make improvements in response to global fluctuations.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-15 13:31:22|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
Video Player Close	error
URUMQI, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- The cotton cultivation areas under the jurisdiction of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), an economic and paramilitary organization, reported a record-high production last year, local authorities said Thursday.	main
Stationed in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the corps reported cotton output of 2.05 million tonnes in 2018, up 20.7 percent year on year, at a press conference.	main
The output accounted for about 40 percent of the region's total yield and 33.5 percent of the national total, according to the corps.	cause_general
Wang Xinnong, director of the corps' statistics bureau, said the strong growth in cotton production can be attributed to favorable weather conditions and preferential policies such as subsidies for cotton growers.	distant_evaluation
Thanks to the policies, the base's cotton-growing area expanded 23.1 percent to reach 854,033 hectares last year, Wang said.	distant_evaluation
The XPCC was established in 1954 to facilitate the region's socio-economic development, promote unity among ethnic groups and strengthen national border defense.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-17 16:02:18|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- China increased its official gold reserves for a second straight month in January, the latest data from the People's Bank of China showed.	main
The country's gold reserves rose slightly to 59.94 million ounces at the end of January from 59.56 million ounces at the end of December 2018, marking a second straight month of increase.	main
The latest gold purchase by the world's second-largest economy came at a time when global central banks are hoarding the precious metal.	cause_general
According to the World Gold Council, global gold demand increased 4 percent year on year to 4,345.1 tonnes last year.	cause_general
The amount of gold bought by central banks reached the highest since 1971, the year when the dollar's peg to bullion was scrapped.	cause_general
Gold reserves of central banks around the world surged 651.5 tonnes, or 74 percent year on year, in 2018.	cause_general
As a safe haven hedge, gold will become more attractive in 2019, due to greater market uncertainties and the expansion of protectionist economic policies, according to a forecast from the World Gold Council.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-17 17:52:36|Editor: Yurou	error
Video Player Close	error
LHASA, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- Foreign trade in southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region was stable in 2018.	main
Official data showed that Tibet's import and export volume totaled 4.752 billion yuan (701 million U.S. dollars) last year.	main
Meanwhile, trade between border residents exceeded 100 million yuan, a year-on-year increase of 169.3 percent.	main
Trade with Nepal rose 4.6 percent year on year and accounted for 52.6 percent of all foreign trade.	main
Tibet has rolled out a series of measures to enhance border trade, while actively joining in the Belt and Road Initiative, which provided a strong impetus to its foreign trade development, said Liu Dali, chief of Lhasa Customs.	cause_general
Local authorities' promotion of economic cooperation with countries in South Asia and Southeast Asia also contributed to the stable foreign trade.	cause_general
Last year, 26 new foreign-invested enterprises were set up in Tibet, bringing a foreign capital of 60 million U.S. dollars.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-17 21:13:21|Editor: ZX	error
Ackim Nyirongo, the firm's director of sales and marketing, said about 10 electric cars have so far been ordered for stocking and will be arriving in the country next month.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
LUSAKA, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- A Zambian firm has started importing smart electric vehicles from China, an official said on Sunday.	main
Amilak Investments, which launched the smart electric vehicles last December, is upbeat about the development and envisages that this will turn around the country's transport sector.	distant_expectations_consequences
The cars are designed in Germany but manufactured in China.	cause_general
"""We launched these smart electric cars on December 14 and had several stakeholders who came to witness this milestone,"" Andrew Kazilimani, the firm's director of operations said."	cause_specific
He said the first phase of the project involves importing the cars directly from China while plans were underway to establish a manufacturing factory in one of the multifacility economic zones in the country.	distant_expectations_consequences
The initiative, he said, will make Zambia a hub in the supply of electric cars in the southern African region.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to him, there were many benefits of using electric cars such as no expenses on fuel and no periodic maintenance required.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-17 20:58:15|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- China's banking and insurance regulator has given the country's largest lender the go-ahead to set up a wealth management subsidiary.	main
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China has got the approval from the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission (CBIRC), the regulator announced Saturday.	main
Four other big lenders Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of Communications, Construction Bank of China and Bank of China have gotten the nod for the business in the past two months.	cause_general
China issued rules in early December 2018 for commercial banks' wealth management branches to strengthen their risk management and support the real economy.	cause_specific
The CBIRC has received wealth management branch applications of several commercial banks and more banks will follow suite.	distant_expectations_consequences
Establishment of wealth management units will enrich the mix of institutional investors, bring more funds to the real economy and the finance market, and meet consumers' diversified needs, the CBIRC said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-13 10:35:56|Editor: Yang Yi	error
It topped the list with a market share of 29 percent, according to research firm IDC.	cause_general
Oppo ranked the second place, with its shipment of smartphones reaching 20.3 million units in the fourth quarter, accounting for 19.6 percent of the market share, followed by Vivo, with a market share of 18.8 percent.	cause_general
Apple Inc's smartphone shipments in the Chinese market plummeted about 20 percent during this period, taking up 11.5 percent of the market share.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- Huawei Technologies Co. ranked the world's third-largest buyer of semiconductors in 2018, following Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc, the China Daily reported on Wednesday, citing a recent report by U.S.-based research firm Gartner Inc.	main
The Chinese tech company spent over 21 billion U.S. dollars on semiconductor chips last year, accounting for 4.4 percent of the total world-wide market.	cause_specific
It increased its chip spending by 45.2 percent, jumping in front of Dell and Lenovo Group to the third spot.	cause_specific
Three other Chinese companies, Lenovo, BBK Electronic Co. and Xiaomi Corp., were also among the top 10 semiconductor buyers in 2018.	cause_general
Gartner said semi-conductor spending by the top 10 buyers increased significantly, and their share reached 40.2 percent of the total semiconductor market in 2018, up from 39.4 percent in 2017.	cause_general
With regard to smartphone sales, Huawei shored up its leading position.	cause_general
The company shipped 30 million smartphones in the domestic market in the fourth quarter of last year, up 23.3 percent year on year.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-08 14:11:54|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Jan. 8 (Xinhua) -- China's smartphone shipments fell 15.5 percent last year to 390 million units, data from the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology (CAICT) showed Tuesday.	main
In December, smartphone shipments reached 33.5 million units, down 17 percent year on year, according to a report from the CAICT, a research institute under the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.	cause_specific
Last year, smartphones accounted for 94.1 percent of all mobile phone shipments in the country.	cause_general
Overall mobile phone shipments dropped 15.6 percent in 2018 to 414 million units, of which 391 million were 4G phones.	main
Chinese-brand mobile phones accounted for 89.5 percent of total shipments last year, according to the report.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-31 22:28:18|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
NAIROBI, Jan. 31 (Xinhua) -- Chinese tech giant Huawei on Thursday launched a new smartphone in Kenya targeting social media-savvy youth.	main
Speaking at the launch in Nairobi, Steven Li, Huawei's head of Eastern Africa Mobile, said the device, retailing at 18,000 Kenyan shillings (180 U.S. dollars), will also be available online on pre-orders that kicked off immediately until Feb. 7.	cause_general
"""Huawei Y7 Prime 2019 is made for today's dynamic youth who are deeply engaged with the social media culture,"" said Li."	distant_evaluation
He said Huawei has also partnered with Lipa Later, a credit facility that lets buyers buy any device of their choice then pay monthly.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-16 13:57:11|Editor: Liangyu	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Feb. 16 (Xinhua) -- China's smartphone shipments fell 11.4 percent in January to 32.15 million units, data from the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology (CAICT) showed Saturday.	main
Last month, smartphones accounted for 94.4 percent of all mobile phone shipments in the country, according to a report from the CAICT, a research institute under the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.	cause_general
Overall mobile phone shipments dropped 12.8 percent in January to 34.05 million units, among which 95 percent were 4G phones.	main
Chinese-brand mobile phones accounted for 94.2 percent of total shipments last month, up from 85.7 percent in January 2018, according to the report.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-02-17 15:32:12|Editor: Li Xia	error
Video Player Close	error
RIGA, Feb. 16 (Xinhua) -- Latvia's mobile operator Bite Latvija said earlier this week it will continue building its 5G infrastructure in partnership with Huawei.	main
At this point, the Latvian telecommunications company has no reasons to suspect Huawei of any ill intentions, local media quoted Bite Latvija technical manager Gints Butens as saying.	distant_evaluation
A security check conducted by Bite Latvija had revealed no risks associated with the Chinese telecom giant, Butens said, adding that the company hires independent experts to audit its network on a regular basis.	cause_general
Meanwhile, other international partners including Deutsche Telekom, Elisa, Orange, Telia Sonera and Vodafone, who also work with Huawei, have not provided any intelligence suggesting that Huawei's technologies might pose security risks to mobile networks and their users, the Bite Latvija representative said.	cause_general
"""As for our cooperation so far, there has been no reason for us to doubt Huawei's integrity."	distant_evaluation
"If such a reason emerges, we of course will take action,"" Butens said, adding that Bite Latvija is confident that Huawei abides by international law and treats its clients, partners and the international community responsibly."	distant_expectations_consequences
Last November, Bite Latvija and Huawei signed a memorandum of understanding on building 5G infrastructure for the Latvian operator's network, including several 5G base stations in Riga and a Narrowband Internet of Things across the country.	distant_historical
SOMETIMES it feels as if there is a red state-blue state divide when it comes to hedge funds.	distant_evaluation
Widespread demand for risk-adjusted returns of 8 to 10 percent ensures that the money spigot will stay turned on.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Risk adjusted means that the portfolio is hedged.	cause_general
If the market slumps, the fund's returns should not.)	cause_general
For example, the top performers of the 2007 Commonfund Benchmarks Study of Educational Endowments, a survey of college, university and other educational endowments and foundations in the United States, were almost 50 percent invested in ''alternatives'' -- hedge funds, private equity, real estate, distressed debt, energy and natural resources and venture capital.	cause_general
Hedge funds constituted the largest portion -- 44 to 70 percent -- of the alternatives category.	cause_general
Average returns for the foundations and endowments that responded to the survey were 10.6 percent, while the leaders posted returns of more than 16.8 percent.	cause_general
The top 10 percent of performers among the endowments allocated 49 percent of their money to alternatives, compared with 11 percent for fixed income, 18 percent for domestic equity and 21 percent for international equity.	cause_general
The top quartile of performers also show a heavy weighting to alternatives: 46 percent, compared with 11 percent for fixed income, 20 percent for international equity and 21 percent for domestic equity.	cause_general
Even though hedge funds represented the bulk of investment dollars, their returns were lackluster.	distant_evaluation
In 2006, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had a total return, when dividends were reinvested, of 15.8 percent.	distant_historical
Some people believe that if permitted to remain free from the shackles of dangerous government oversight, hedge funds can help solve problems from underfunded pensions to inept corporate management.	distant_expectations_consequences
Overall returns for alternatives averaged 14.6 percent.	distant_historical
Energy and natural resources produced a stunning return of 40 percent; distressed debt, 26 percent; and private equity, 19 percent.	distant_historical
Hedge funds turned out only 10.6 percent.	distant_historical
But investors did not seem to be bothered.	distant_evaluation
''It was nice to see hedge funds were doing what they are supposed to do,'' said John S. Griswold Jr. executive director of the Commonfund Institute, a research organization dedicated to educating the nonprofit community about investing.	distant_evaluation
''They should lag a rapidly rising stock market,'' he explained, ''because hedging has a cost.''	distant_evaluation
The money continues to flow into hedge funds.	distant_evaluation
Hedge Fund Research, a Chicago-based research firm, estimates that $110 billion flowed into new funds through November.	cause_general
A study released by Deutsche Bank yesterday surveyed investors who represent $900 billion of the total $1.4 trillion in the industry and predicted that $110 billion will flow into the sector in 2007.	distant_expectations_consequences
''I don't think demand will slow down anytime soon unless we see a lot of disasters,'' Mr. Griswold said.	distant_expectations_consequences
This group tends to include hedge fund employees and hedge fund investors.	distant_evaluation
''There's a bit of a herd mentality here.	distant_evaluation
If you are not in hedge funds, people look funny at you, like, 'Why aren't you?'	distant_evaluation
''	distant_evaluation
Heavy investments in alternatives and hedge funds in particular have paid off for endowments.	distant_evaluation
More than 79 percent of the growth in endowments with assets of $500 million to $1 billion resulted from investment returns (as opposed to gifts, for example).	cause_general
Institutions with more than $1 billion derived more than 75 percent of their returns from their investments, according to the Commonfund survey.	cause_general
A separate study conducted by Casey, Quirk & Associates last fall also showed satisfied customers.	cause_general
About 72 percent of respondents said that hedge fund returns came within 1 percentage point of their target.	cause_general
A surprising 25 percent of investors said they did better than expected: 19 percent exceeded their target by 1 to 5 percentage point.	cause_general
Only 3 percent said their investment underperformed.	cause_general
Others believe that hedge funds are sinister forces that capitalize on superior information -- possibly obtained illegally -- and are hell-bent on pillaging the financial system to corner the market on luxury cars and palatial real estate.	distant_evaluation
There are other reasons to expect robust growth.	distant_evaluation
Pension funds are wading in, raising their investments in alternatives in general and hedge funds in particular.	distant_evaluation
The Casey, Quirk study estimated that institutions globally will add $1 trillion in money by 2010, compared with $360 billion today.	distant_expectations_consequences
The growing role of institutions has tempered expectations about returns: 80 percent of those surveyed by Casey, Quick said they expected returns below 10 percent, with the bulk anticipating 8 to 9 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
Only 20 percent expected more than 10 percent.	distant_expectations_consequences
Megabucks compensation, meanwhile, still draws talent to hedge funds.	cause_general
''Hedge funds are here to stay because of the compensation,'' Mr. Griswold said.	cause_specific
''This is where the best and brightest managers are gravitating to.''	distant_evaluation
The unforgiving nature of the industry means that those who do not perform will be booted out.	distant_evaluation
According to Hedge Fund Research, since the beginning of 2005 almost 1,300 hedge funds have closed.	cause_general
This group includes much of the news media and the Connecticut attorney general.	distant_evaluation
During that time, more than 3,000 have been started.	cause_general
There will be more Amaranth Advisors (which was based in Greenwich, Conn.) -- funds that blow up because of bad and greedy bets.	distant_expectations_consequences
There will be frauds and there may be a market meltdown.	distant_expectations_consequences
But alternative investing -- in private companies, with hedge fund managers who more aggressively try to time the markets, and in forests and wineries, is thriving.	distant_evaluation
STREET SCENE: INSIDER	error
Yet hedge funds are neither saviors nor Satan.	distant_evaluation
There are more than 9,000 funds that vary greatly in the kinds of investments they make, returns they seek and strategies they employ.	cause_general
One of the few things they have in common -- other than gigantic paychecks when their returns are good -- is that the funds have become a more accepted fixture in the financial landscape.	main
A number of recent studies show that hedge fund investors are satisfied with the performance of their investments, even if that performance appears on paper to be less than stellar.	cause_general
MANY investors have been heeding market strategists' advice to reduce portfolio risk by putting more money into stable, high-quality, dividend-paying stocks.	distant_evaluation
That is nearly identical to the annualized gain of 11.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of domestic blue chips.	cause_general
But keep in mind that those slightly higher gains came with slightly higher risk, as foreign stocks on their own are still more volatile than domestic equities.	distant_evaluation
Sometimes, a modest dose of a risky asset can make an entire portfolio less volatile.	distant_evaluation
From 1970 to 2005, a 100 percent stock portfolio invested in the S.& P. 500 would have earned 11.1 percent, annualized, according to S.& P. And that is with a so-called standard deviation -- a popular measure of volatility -- of 16.8.	cause_general
But by moving 25 percent of that money from the S.& P. 500 to the EAFE index, the portfolio would have earned 11.4 percent a year, on average, with a slightly lower standard deviation of 16.4.	cause_general
Add too much, however, and more volatility enters the mix.	cause_general
In this case, had 75 percent of the equity stake been invested in the EAFE index and 25 percent in the S.& P. 500, the portfolio would have earned the same 11.4 percent, annualized, from 1970 to 2005.	cause_general
But the portfolio's volatility would have shot up to 19.1.	cause_general
This shows that while the global markets may be moving more in sync, ''the world markets aren't completely integrated yet,'' said James D. Peterson, vice president of the Schwab Center for Investment Research in San Francisco.	distant_evaluation
Consider the recent performance of foreign and domestic blue chips.	cause_general
But instead of plowing this money into large-capitalization companies based in the United States, investors have redirected much of it into shares of blue-chip foreign companies based largely in Western Europe and Japan.	main
Over the last five years, the average foreign large-blend fund returned 13.8 percent a year, on average, according to Morningstar Inc., the fund tracker, as many foreign economies have grown faster than that of the United States and as the dollar has weakened of late.	cause_general
By comparison, domestic large-cap blend funds advanced only 6.3 percent a year, on average, during this stretch.	cause_general
And last year, foreign blue-chip funds soared 25.1 percent, beating the returns of domestic blue-chip funds by more than 10 percentage points.	cause_general
Arguably, much of the investor interest in foreign blue chips can be attributed to their outperformance, not to their similarities to their domestic counterparts.	cause_specific
''A lot of people just want to be exposed to foreign because it's been doing so well,'' said Ronald W. Rogé, a financial planner in Bohemia, N.Y. ''It's performance chasing.''	distant_anecdotal
To be sure, the correlation between the S.& P. 500 and the EAFE index has been 0.8 over the last three years, according to Morningstar.	cause_general
On paper, that is fairly high, because a correlation of 1.0 implies that two assets are moving in perfect tandem.	cause_general
But consider that over this same stretch, the correlation between the S.& P. 500 and the Russell 2000 index of small domestic stocks was actually greater, 0.83, according to Morningstar.	cause_general
Yet investors take it on faith that large-cap and small-cap stocks are entirely different asset classes.	distant_evaluation
There are several reasons for continuing to treat foreign and domestic blue-chip stocks separately.	distant_evaluation
Indeed, foreign large-cap blend funds -- which primarily invest in blue-chip growth and value stocks in developed markets -- were the most popular category of funds through the first 11 months of 2006, according to the Financial Research Corporation in Boston.	cause_specific
''A big reason is the issue of currency,'' Mr. Peterson said.	distant_evaluation
Investors who put money to work in a foreign market should consider that market's volatility, as well as that of the currency in which its stocks trade.	distant_evaluation
In 2006, the EAFE index rose 13.8 percent when measured in local currencies, according to MSCI.	cause_general
But for Americans to make an investment abroad, money must first be converted from dollars to those local currencies to buy the securities.	cause_general
And when it comes time to sell, the money has to be reconverted back into dollars.	cause_general
In dollar terms, the EAFE index actually returned much more last year: 23.5 percent.	cause_general
That is because the dollar lost value against the euro.	cause_general
A weakening dollar is a tailwind for Americans investing abroad because each share of their foreign stock becomes worth that much more in dollars.	distant_evaluation
SO isn't this good news for domestic investors?	distant_evaluation
It certainly was last year.	distant_evaluation
Foreign large-blend funds attracted $43.8 billion of net new money during this stretch.	cause_general
But what happens if the dollar turns around this year and appreciates, as it did in 2005?	distant_expectations_consequences
In that case, investors could see a big chunk of their foreign stock market gains evaporate -- even if the global stock markets are highly correlated -- simply because the dollar gained value.	distant_expectations_consequences
This is one reason that investors should always assess several factors in the risk and return of a particular stock, said Francis M. Kinniry Jr., a principal in the investment counseling and research department at the Vanguard Group.	distant_evaluation
These include its industry, its value or growth orientation, its market cap and the region where it operates.	distant_evaluation
''While issues of style and cap size are always important, in many cases they would be secondary to geographic regions,'' Mr. Kinniry said, because stocks will always be affected by their regional economies and local currencies.	distant_evaluation
In other words, while geography may not be as important a subject as it used to be for investors, it is still one to be studied.	distant_evaluation
FUNDAMENTALLY Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report.	error
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.	error
By comparison, highflying diversified emerging-market stock funds attracted $6.6 billion and domestic large-blend funds drew $4 billion, according to Financial Research.	cause_general
But does investing in blue chips abroad achieve the same results for a portfolio as investing in big, high-quality domestic stocks?	distant_evaluation
The answer is still no, given the currency risks that you inevitably take on when investing abroad.	distant_evaluation
Yet a growing number of people argue that foreign and domestic stocks are becoming more alike, given the increased correlation among the world's markets.	distant_evaluation
Since 1970, for example, the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index, for European, Australian and Far Eastern stocks, has returned 11.6 percent a year, on average.	cause_general
THE dollar fell against many currencies in 2006, and many Wall Street analysts are predicting more of the same this year.	main
In terms of domestic stocks, he favors large stocks like those in the S.& P. 500- stock index.	distant_evaluation
On average, the companies in this index earn 41 percent of their revenue in foreign countries.	cause_general
''If you believe that international economies are going to do fairly well, and the dollar is likely to weaken,'' Mr. Stovall said, ''then you could get a good bit of tailwind if you transfer those foreign profits back to U.S.	distant_expectations_consequences
dollars.''	distant_expectations_consequences
But averages can hide wide variances.	distant_evaluation
Some industries represented in the S.& P. 500 draw much more of their revenue abroad than others.	cause_general
Companies in the energy and technology sectors, for example, generate well over half of their sales outside the United States, while the utilities and telecommunications companies in the index produce a vast majority of their revenue at home.	cause_general
For example, the handful of telecommunications providers in the index get just 3 percent of their revenue, on average, in foreign countries.	cause_general
Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, has recommended European stocks for a few years.	distant_evaluation
He said that individual investors should now focus on developed markets -- and that if they have made a lot of money in emerging markets funds in recent years, they may want to consider rebalancing their portfolios.	distant_expectations_consequences
That needn't worry investors, who could profit from a continued decline in many ways.	distant_evaluation
''You have to be a little bit concerned that emerging-markets debt and equity may have gotten a bit ahead of themselves,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Schweitzer said that any further appreciation of the euro could be modest this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Still, he added, European stocks were appealing investments for a host of other reasons.	distant_evaluation
He pointed out that the average dividend yield in the S.& P. 500 index was now 1.8 percent, compared with 3.2 percent for the MSCI United Kingdom index and 2.5 percent for the MSCI Europe index, excluding Britain.	cause_general
For Americans investing in Britain or on the continent, a further slide by the dollar against the pound or the euro could bolster those dividend advantages.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Meanwhile, European companies are cutting costs and restructuring, and that's starting to show up in their earnings growth,'' Mr. Schweitzer said.	distant_evaluation
Earnings per share for European stocks, he said, grew almost twice as fast in the first five years of this decade as they did during the last five years of the 1990s.	cause_general
On the fixed-income side of their portfolios, some investors may be tempted to profit directly from a falling dollar by buying foreign bonds or CDs.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Martin J. Mauro, the fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch, said he didn't think the time was ripe for investing in foreign bonds.	distant_evaluation
Interest rates are likely to fall in the United States this year but rise in many other countries, Mr. Mauro said.	distant_expectations_consequences
But some strategists caution that it may be wiser to try to benefit indirectly from a weaker dollar -- by holding stocks or stock funds focused on certain industries and countries -- than by betting directly on foreign currencies.	distant_evaluation
Bond prices move in the opposite direction of interest rates, so both European and Asian bonds would generally be unattractive for American investors, he said.	distant_evaluation
Many economists predict that the dollar will fall further against the Japanese yen than it will against the euro -- largely because the dollar rose slightly against the yen in 2006.	main
S.& P. forecasts a dollar decline of 6.8 percent against the yen this year; Merrill Lynch sees a decline of 10 percent.	main
But Mr. Mauro said American investors would be giving up too much yield if they bought Japanese bonds or CDs.	distant_evaluation
Short-term interest rates are less than 1 percent in Japan, versus 5 percent in the United States.	cause_general
And Mr. Mauro said he expected the dollar to fall by only an additional 1 percent or so against the euro -- which he said wouldn't be quite enough to make up for the yield that Americans would sacrifice by buying European bonds or CDs.	main
One-year government bills in the United States currently pay around 5 percent, versus 3.9 percent in Germany.	cause_general
For now, he recommends high-quality domestic bonds.	distant_evaluation
He said typical individual investors should put at most 5 percent of their bond portfolios into high-yield bonds, and none into emerging-market debt.	distant_evaluation
Although short-term rates are relatively high, he recommends intermediate maturities -- 5 to 15 years -- because he expects domestic interest rates to be lower next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
''You've got to know your limitations,'' said Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.	distant_evaluation
''If we're right, and the economy weakens and the Fed cuts rates, then what investors will earn on short-term rates will be a lot less next year,'' he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It's a tough move to make now, but they'll be better off a year from now'' if they buy longer-maturity bonds or CDs today.	distant_evaluation
FINALLY, if investors are really worried about the dollar, Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company, advises them to put about 5 percent of their portfolios into gold.	distant_evaluation
He recommends buying the metal through an exchange-traded fund like StreetTracks Gold Shares or the iShares Comex Gold Trust -- both of which are backed by bars of gold in a vault.	distant_evaluation
He predicted that gold could rise as much as 20 percent in 2007, to around $750 an ounce.	distant_expectations_consequences
A falling dollar, Mr. Metz said, may prompt foreign central banks to sell some their dollar reserves to buy gold.	distant_expectations_consequences
He also said that rising incomes across Asia could become a factor.	distant_expectations_consequences
''The great theme of this century,'' he said, ''will be the enormous transfer of wealth to developing nations, where they have traditionally used gold as a store of value.''	distant_expectations_consequences
SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING	error
''Unless you make millions of dollars on Wall Street, you probably shouldn't be speculating in currencies.''	distant_evaluation
In 2006, the dollar fell 10.2 percent against the euro and 12 percent against the British pound, although it rose 1.1 percent against the Japanese yen.	cause_general
Mr. Stovall said the best move for most individual investors would be to stock up on the shares of American multinational corporations that earn a lot of their revenues abroad, as well as on foreign stocks.	distant_evaluation
''We feel that many foreign economies are not as far along in their economic cycle, and they have good growth potential now,'' he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
He recommended that individual investors allocate 40 percent of their total portfolios to domestic stocks, 20 percent to foreign stocks, 25 percent to domestic bonds and 15 percent to cash instruments like money market accounts and certificates of deposit.	distant_evaluation
As the court-appointed guardian and self-described fixer of some of America's most wayward companies, Richard C. Breeden, the former top securities regulator, is considered a pillar of corporate ethics and governance.	distant_evaluation
asked Philip Goldstein of Bulldog Investors, which runs hedge funds similar in style and intent to that of Mr. Breeden.	distant_evaluation
''You get the guys leaving Goldman Sachs and raising $2 billion, but this is even more astonishing -- he doesn't have a track record.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Goldstein added that ''it's kind of like starting at the top -- you'd think you'd want to work at a hedge fund for a while.''	distant_evaluation
But what Mr. Breeden may lack in investing experience, he makes up for in other ways, according to his friends, who cite his hard-driving nature, his intellect, his attention to detail and his decisiveness, if marred at times by a divalike attitude.	distant_evaluation
''If it's a bad idea, Richard will kick it down the toilet and flush,'' said Laurence E. Harris, a lawyer in Washington who is one of four close friends that Mr. Breeden nominated last month to the board of directors at Applebee's, with a view to gaining a say in how the company is run.	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Breeden ''knows what to look for,'' Mr. Harris said.	distant_anecdotal
''He's a lot less likely to be fooled than a lot of people who are pure investors, because he understands the mechanics of corporate governance and securities laws.''	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Breeden, 57, declined to comment for this article.	cause_general
He has not only has a new professional life, but a new personal one as well.	distant_historical
Last year, Mr. Breeden married a trust administrator of the Bennett Funding Group, which he had overseen as the court-appointed monitor.	distant_historical
Now he trying to become another paragon -- that of savvy investor in troubled companies.	main
(He and his first wife, Holly, were divorced in 2005 after 27 years of marriage.)	distant_historical
Mr. Breeden is now perhaps the most senior former government official ever to run a hedge fund.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Breeden oversaw the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1989 to 1993.	distant_historical
He then ran one of the world's largest accounting firms, Coopers & Lybrand, before establishing his private firm, Richard C. Breeden & Company, in Greenwich, Conn., to advise companies hobbled by ethics and governance problems.	distant_historical
In recent years, he has served as the high-profile outside monitor for scandal-plagued firms like WorldCom, which filed for bankruptcy in 2002 and Conrad Black's former company, Hollinger International.	distant_historical
It was when he was overseeing the bankruptcy of WorldCom, later MCI, that Mr. Breeden first began thinking about starting a hedge fund, according to friends and associates.	cause_specific
Seeing the roles played by the Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim Helú and Mark Neporent of the hedge fund Cerberus Capital as investors in MCI, he asked Mr. Harris, ''I'm thinking of starting a hedge fund -- what do you think?''	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Harris, who recalled the conversation, said Mr. Breeden told him, ''The one thing I don't want to do is fail.''	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Breeden's right-hand man at Breeden Partners is his friend Steven J. Quamme, a one-time mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer with whom Mr. Breeden once worked at Baker Botts, the Washington law firm.	distant_evaluation
When asked who was running the hedge fund -- in other words, picking companies in which to invest, Mr. Harris replied, ''I don't think you can actually separate Richard and Steve -- they're joined at the hip.''	distant_anecdotal
And in the coming months he will face his first major test: taking on the Applebee's International restaurant chain in a proxy fight.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Quamme did not return calls requesting comment.	cause_general
An entrepreneur as well as an investor, Mr. Quamme has picked some winners in his past jobs, including a chain of video stores that was sold to Blockbuster Video early last decade and a chunk of the Einstein Brothers Bagels franchises.	distant_historical
Mr. Quamme, whom Mr. Breeden also nominated to serve on the Applebee's board, has also endured some setbacks.	distant_evaluation
His 50 percent stake in Boston Chicken, through Mayfair Partners, an investing partnership that he ran in the mid-1990s, went stale in 1998 when the restaurant and the partnership both filed for bankruptcy.	distant_historical
It is, of course, far too early to tell whether Mr. Breeden's knowledge and experience will make his hedge fund, whose philosophy is to invest in American companies with fixable problems in policy and governance, a winner.	distant_evaluation
Some analysts do not see his fund making an impact on Applebee's.	distant_evaluation
''We do not see a dramatic shift near-term in the company's strategic direction that would lead to the 'value creating' programs proposed by the activist,'' Andrew Barish, an analyst with Banc of America Securities wrote earlier this month.	distant_evaluation
Applebee's declined to comment on Mr. Breeden's proposals.	cause_general
The fund sought to raise $1.25 billion but has so far brought in only around $500 million, including $400 million from Calpers, the California pension fund.	cause_general
The hedge fund earned 7.73 percent in the third quarter of 2006, according to the most recent available data from Calpers.	distant_historical
Mr. Breeden's fledgling advocacy hedge fund, Breeden Partners, which owns a 5.2 percent stake in Applebee's, began its battle last month, when Mr. Breeden nominated four close friends to its board.	cause_general
To some, Mr. Breeden's leap into the hedge fund business on the heels of serving as a court-appointed monitor for so many large companies raises questions.	distant_evaluation
''It's an appearances problem, and it bothers me,'' said Michael Feiner, an ethics professor at Columbia Business School, adding that he thought government officials should be required to wait two years before working at hedge funds or lobbying groups.	distant_evaluation
''I'm disappointed that he is doing this.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Breeden's spokesmen declined to answer questions on whether Breeden Partners would prohibit itself from investing in companies for which Mr. Breeden had served as a court-appointed monitor.	cause_general
And the transparency that Mr. Breeden championed at the troubled companies he has overseen may go by the wayside with his new venture.	distant_expectations_consequences
Like many hedge funds, Breeden Partners has affiliated entities registered in the Cayman Islands, to take advantage of generous offshore tax benefits.	cause_general
STREET SCENE	error
Correction: January 23, 2007, Tuesday An article on the Street Scene page of Business Day on Friday about Richard C. Breeden, the former top securities regulator who is started a hedge fund aimed at troubled companies, misstated his former position at the accounting firm Coopers & Lybrand.	distant_historical
He was a co-chairman of the firm's international business; he did not run the firm.	distant_historical
Hedge funds, the lucrative private investment pools for institutions like endowments and pensions, and for the wealthy, are nearly always managed by former Wall Street traders or money managers.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Breeden -- a Harvard-trained securities lawyer -- has no investing experience.	cause_general
But he is seeking to bring his knowledge of securities laws and corporate governance into investing in underperforming companies.	main
Some in the business are skeptical.	distant_evaluation
''I guess I wonder, how does a guy with no investment management experience run a hedge fund?''	distant_evaluation
American investors, having seen the dollar weaken and foreign stock markets consistently outperform the American market, are putting record amounts of money into overseas securities.	main
The figures show that Americans bought a net $168.9 billion of foreign bonds over the 12-month period.	cause_specific
By contrast, for all of 2005 the figure was only $45.1 billion.	distant_historical
The attraction of foreign stocks has also been strong, but is not at record levels.	distant_evaluation
The $108.3 billion purchased during the 12-month period is well below the record of $140 billion, set in the 12 months through last May.	distant_evaluation
The popularity of foreign stocks has come as foreign markets consistently have done better than the American one.	distant_evaluation
For the 12 months through April, the Standard & Poor's 500, a prominent index of large American companies, was up 13.1 percent.	cause_specific
But the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index, which covers all developed countries except the United States, rose 17 percent.	cause_specific
It was the 44th consecutive month that the EAFE index has shown a better 12-month performance than the S.&P., matching the record length of a stretch that ended in February 1989, another time of dollar weakness.	cause_general
By contrast, Americans were net sellers of foreign stocks in 1999, a time when the dollar was strong and the American stock market was roaring ahead.	distant_historical
For 56 months that ended in August 1999, the S.&P.	distant_historical
Figures released this week by the Treasury Department showed that Americans spent a net $40.3 billion on overseas securities in March, making that the second-heaviest outflow ever, trailing only the $48.7 billion figure for last December.	cause_specific
500 showed better 12-month performance than did the EAFE index.	distant_historical
If Americans keep sending their dollars overseas -- whether to buy socks or stocks -- that could put further pressure on the value of those dollars.	distant_expectations_consequences
OFF THE CHARTS	error
The accompanying chart shows 12-month totals for such purchases, with smaller charts breaking down stock and bond transactions.	cause_general
All figures are net, the difference between securities purchased and sold, so negative numbers show when Americans were net sellers.	cause_general
For the 12 months through March, Americans bought a record $277 billion in foreign long-term securities.	cause_specific
Those purchases pale next to the offsetting purchases of American securities by foreigners, which came to $1.15 trillion over the most recent 12 months.	distant_evaluation
Nonetheless, they are important because the United States needs to attract foreign investments to offset the huge trade deficit, which is only starting to decline.	distant_evaluation
For the 12 months through March, that deficit came to $754 billion.	cause_general
With Americans clamoring to buy foreign securities -- not to mention the foreign cars, toys and other goods that make up the trade deficit -- the dollar has lost value, particularly against the euro and the British pound, the two principal currencies whose central banks do not intervene to keep them from rising.	distant_evaluation
For the two bidders for Clear Channel Communications, the third time may be the charm.	distant_expectations_consequences
A spokesman for Calpers, the California public employee pension fund, said it supported the latest offer; Calpers holds 3.3 million shares of Clear Channel.	distant_evaluation
''What we focus on is what will get the highest value for our members,'' the spokesman, Brad Pacheco, said.	distant_evaluation
Shares of Clear Channel closed at $38.23 yesterday, up 1.2 percent.	cause_general
The deal is substantially the same that Bain and Thomas H. Lee offered earlier this month -- and that Clear Channel initially rejected.	distant_evaluation
But a few days later, several institutional investors, including Highfields, a hedge fund, urged the company to take more time to consider the offer.	cause_specific
After Clear Channel's announcement on May 7 that it would reconsider the revised buyout offer, the company took about a week before agreeing to the new bid.	cause_specific
The six-month-long contest illustrates the increased assertiveness of public investors, as private equity firms have acquired scores of companies.	distant_evaluation
In the bidding for Clear Channel, the power of shareholders was amplified by the law in Texas, where the company is based.	cause_general
Under that state's regulations, approval of a buyout requires the support of two-thirds of all shareholders -- not just those voting.	cause_general
Shortly after Clear Channel announced its first agreement with the buyout firms, at $37.60 a share in cash, several major shareholders, as well as proxy advisory firms, complained that the company was being sold too cheaply.	cause_specific
The company, which owns the largest radio network in the nation, agreed yesterday to accept a revised buyout offer from Bain Capital and Thomas H. Lee Partners, potentially clinching a deal that had eluded the two private equity firms for months.	main
The bidders raised their offer to $39, which Clear Channel accepted, but the offer again met resistance from investors.	cause_specific
But after Clear Channel's initial rejection of the third buyout bid, the company received worried phone calls from scores of investors.	cause_specific
Though some technical details remain unresolved, the deal is expected to go through.	distant_expectations_consequences
Clear Channel said it would postpone a vote on the deal, originally scheduled for a special meeting on May 22.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company will instead set a new record date and a new vote, which will probably take place within the next three months, pending the filing of amended registration materials with federal regulators.	distant_expectations_consequences
Unlike the previous offers, the latest one was drawn up with guidance by several shareholders, Scott Sperling, managing director of Thomas H. Lee, said yesterday.	distant_evaluation
"""We were guided to this spot by the shareholders,"" Mr. Sperling said, specifically highlighting the roles played by Highfields Capital Management and Fidelity Investments in reaching the new deal."	distant_evaluation
Investors will receive $39.20 a share.	cause_general
Alternatively, they have the option of rolling their holdings into a cumulative 30 percent stake in the newly private Clear Channel, in what is known as stub equity.	cause_general
The portion available to investors is worth about $1.2 billion, but no shareholder may hold more than 9.9 percent of the new company.	cause_general
Bain and Thomas H. Lee have also agreed to limit their fees from the deal, as well as to allow for two independent directors for the new company.	cause_general
Highfields will choose one, while the other shareholders will elect the other, according to people briefed on the negotiations.	cause_general
The occasional activist has stirred up a revolt at an annual general meeting, led a no-confidence vote against management and even taken executives to court.	distant_evaluation
Prudential, one of Britain's largest insurers, on May 17 faced calls from Hermes, a London-based hedge fund, and other shareholders to break itself up.	cause_specific
Deutsche Börse, the operator of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, this month removed from the agenda of its annual shareholder meeting a motion that would have made it easier to issue new shares without asking shareholders -- mainly to appease rebellious Atticus Capital, a New York-based hedge fund.	cause_specific
A number of recent cases have shown that shareholder activism can pay: the UK Focus Fund of Hermes, which has taken an activist tack, had annual returns of 4.9 percentage points above the FTSE All-Share Index from 1998 to 2004, according to a 2006 study by the London Business School and the European Corporate Governance Institute.	cause_specific
Yet, activism does not come cheap.	distant_evaluation
The Children's Investment Fund hired its own press relations specialist to send out almost daily updates to journalists about its ABN Amro campaign.	cause_specific
Knight Vinke Asset Management, the Monaco-based activist investor, last year ran advertisements in French and British newspapers to campaign for a breakup of Suez, the French utility.	distant_historical
Small shareholder associations, whose membership fees do not cover such large campaigns, are happy to jump on the bandwagon, said Jean-Pierre Paelinck, secretary general of Euroshareholders in Brussels.	distant_evaluation
The efforts seem to be persuading executives that they need to listen to shareholders or risk their jobs and control over their company.	distant_evaluation
Rijkman W. J. Groenink, ABN Amro's chief executive, in an emotional outburst on April 28, complained to a Dutch court that his company had become ''a toy for hedge funds.''	distant_evaluation
Werner G. Seifert, who was ousted as chief executive of Deutsche Börse after an activist investor campaign, last year disclosed his frustration in a memoir called ''Invasion of the Locusts.''	distant_historical
Those have been the extreme cases.	distant_evaluation
Those who have not yet had contact with activist investors are seeking advice.	cause_general
Calls from executives asking what to do in case an activist hedge fund buys into the company are definitely on the rise, said Philip Keevil, a senior partner at Compass Advisers, a merger advisory firm, in London.	distant_evaluation
Shareholder activism does not need to be confrontational, he said.	distant_evaluation
Managers sometimes welcome active shareholders because it gives them an opportunity to push for changes.	distant_evaluation
But senior executives are also being pressured to deliver shareholder returns as the investment base of companies shifts from passive institutional investors with longer-term horizons to hedge funds focused on the short term, sometimes holding as little as a 1 percent stake in a company.	cause_general
Activism was further fueled by a realization among shareholders that selling shares, often at a loss, to protest unsuccessful management did not really change anything.	cause_general
It simply meant the investment was now weighing on someone else's portfolio as the company continued to underperform.	cause_general
''Activist shareholders are giving more confidence to those who felt in the past that they had no say and remind managers of their duties to account for shareholders' interest,'' said David Brooks, head of mergers at the advisory firm Grant Thornton in London.	distant_evaluation
The recent explosion of private equity wealth and the rising appetite for takeovers are adding to the pressure on management to listen to shareholders.	cause_general
Analysts say shareholder activism is also focusing on a growing distrust of senior management that can be traced back to corporate scandals like those at Enron and Parmalat.	cause_general
But in Europe, shareholder activism -- a term that brings to mind Carl C. Icahn or Kirk Kerkorian, unseating directors and forcing spinoffs with elbows-out tactics -- now seems to be moving toward Main Street and into the hands of ordinary investors.	main
There is a general tendency that ''if there is a problem with the company, shareholders will say, 'Let's do something about it ourselves and don't trust the directors to do so,' '' said Roger Lawson, communications director for the UK Shareholders' Association.	distant_evaluation
Encouraged by the success of activist investors, traditional asset management firms like Fidelity Investments, the largest mutual fund company in the world, and Templeton, which never made public statements about their investments in the past, also became more vocal and in some instances publicly threw their weight behind an activist hedge fund.	cause_general
Henderson Global Investors, a 73-year-old British asset management firm, is planning later this year to set up an ''active engagement fund'' to look for undervalued companies, buy a stake in them and work together with the management to improve performance and enhance shareholder value.	distant_expectations_consequences
Even though shareholder activism is generally considered to be positive because it makes companies more efficient and increases shareholder returns, some analysts said that the focus on short-term returns can mean important long-term goals were neglected.	distant_evaluation
Under pressure to perform, managers may feel forced to come up with short-term fixes for problems that would otherwise require more time to solve, said Mr. Brooks of Grant Thornton.	distant_evaluation
But Mr. Borges at the European Corporate Governance Institute said these would remain exceptions because it was in the interest of short-term investors to sell their shares at a profit, and they could do so only if they found new investors who believed in the long-term potential of the revamped company.	distant_evaluation
Despite the possible high returns, shareholder activism remains hard work.	distant_evaluation
Just how hard is illustrated by the retirement plans of Mr. de Vries, who after 18 years of fighting for shareholders' rights decided to leave the Dutch shareholder group in October.	distant_evaluation
Until then, he said, he will fight on and wonder who will be around longer: he or Mr. Groenink of ABN Amro.	distant_evaluation
These no-frills activists are changing the dynamics at the top, their measured but pointed agitation pitting previously passive shareholders, who are used to expressing displeasure by simply selling their shares, against senior management.	main
In many cases, the shareholders are gaining the upper hand, nudging up share prices and sometimes forcing out an executive or forcing the sale of the company.	main
Most recently, the Children's Investment Fund turned dissatisfaction into deal-making at ABN Amro, leading to rival bids for the bank, the largest in the Netherlands.	cause_specific
Then Peter Paul de Vries, the feisty head of the Dutch shareholder association VEB, successfully took ABN Amro's management to court, accusing it of bypassing shareholders when selling one of the bank's most attractive assets.	cause_specific
''What we have seen so far may only be the beginning,'' said Antonio Borges, chairman of the European Corporate Governance Institute and a vice chairman at Goldman Sachs in London.	distant_evaluation
''There are many more opportunities as there are many more underperforming companies.''	distant_evaluation
When Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine released its annual list of the highest paid hedge fund managers last month, it allowed the rest of us to play an entertaining little parlor game: what could you buy if you made as much money as those guys?	distant_evaluation
On top of the management fee, hedge funds also take a big cut -- usually at least 20 percent -- of any profits that exceed a predetermined benchmark.	cause_specific
So in a good year, a fund's managers bring in stunning amounts of money, and in a bad year, they still do very well.	distant_evaluation
Some quick math shows why: 2 percent of a $5 billion portfolio, which was roughly the cutoff for making Alpha's list of the 100 largest funds, equals $100 million.	cause_general
A fund's managers get to take that fee every single year.	cause_general
Last year was actually a pretty tough year for the industry.	distant_evaluation
Because hedge funds tend to make a lot of countercyclical bets -- thus the name -- they can often turn a profit even when the stock market falls.	distant_evaluation
When it's rising broadly, though, many struggle to keep up.	distant_evaluation
Last year, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 14 percent, while the average hedge fund returned less than 13 percent, after investment fees, according to Hedge Fund Research in Chicago.	distant_historical
But the men -- and they are all men -- who appear on Alpha's list of top earners don't manage average hedge funds.	cause_general
They manage the biggest funds in the world, the ones that are winning the Darwinian competition for capital, and many of them aren't having any trouble beating the market.	cause_specific
James Simons, a 69-year-old mathematician who was at the top of the list, earned $1.7 billion, which equaled the amount of money that the federal government spent last year running its vast network of national parks.	cause_specific
One of the funds at Mr. Simons's firm, Renaissance Technologies, delivered a net return of 21 percent last year.	distant_historical
The other returned 44 percent after fees.	distant_historical
And Mr. Simons, who relies on a fantastically complex set of algorithms, doesn't charge ''2 and 20'' -- as the typical industry fees are called.	cause_specific
He charges ''5 and 44'' -- a 5 percent management fee and 44 percent of profits -- yet he has still been doing very well by his investors for almost two decades.	cause_specific
I realize that a lot of people find 9- and 10-figure incomes to be inherently excessive.	distant_evaluation
Or even immoral.	distant_evaluation
From a strictly economic point of view, however, they are also perfectly rational.	distant_evaluation
You cannot find anyone else who is providing the same returns as the best hedge fund managers at a lower price.	distant_evaluation
If you don't like it, you don't have to give them your money.	distant_evaluation
(Even if you do like it, they probably won't take your money.	distant_evaluation
Down at No.	cause_specific
In exchange for being lightly regulated, hedge funds are open only to wealthy investors and big institutions.)	cause_general
Thanks to their incredible performance, the biggest funds have grown far bigger in recent years.	distant_evaluation
The 100 largest firms in the world managed $1 trillion at the end of last year, or 69 percent of all the assets in hedge funds, according to Alpha.	distant_historical
At the end of 2003, the top 100 had less than $500 billion, or only 54 percent of total hedge fund investments.	distant_historical
''The best performance is coming from the largest funds,'' said Christy Wood, who oversees equities investments for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, which, like a lot of pension funds, is moving more money into hedge funds.	distant_anecdotal
But there is an irony to this influx of money.	distant_evaluation
It all but guarantees that hedge fund pay over the next few years won't be as closely tied to performance as it has been.	distant_expectations_consequences
The hundreds of millions of dollars that have flowed into hedge funds have made it all the harder for fund managers to find truly undervalued investments.	distant_evaluation
The world is awash in capital.	distant_evaluation
All that capital, of course, also translates into ever-greater management fees, regardless of a fund's performance.	cause_general
3 on the list, Edward S. Lampert of Greenwich, Conn., the investor who owns a large chunk of Sears, made $1.3 billion, which, if you forget about taxes, would have allowed him to buy the entire economic output of Sierra Leone.	cause_specific
The flagship hedge fund at Goldman Sachs lost 6 percent last year, but it still brought in a nice stream of fees.	distant_historical
Bridgewater Associates, which is based in Greenwich, has earned a net return of less than 4 percent in each of the last two years.	distant_historical
Yet its founder, Raymond T. Dalio, made $350 million in 2006.	distant_historical
''When we have a bad year, we're essentially flat,'' Parag Shah, a Bridgewater executive, told me.	distant_anecdotal
''And when we have a good year, we have a great year.''	distant_anecdotal
Goldman and Bridgewater may well bounce back, but the combination of extraordinary pay and ordinary performance is going to occur more and more in the coming years.	distant_expectations_consequences
Outside of the highfliers on the Alpha list, it's already the norm.	cause_general
Since 2000, the average hedge fund hasn't done any better, after fees, than the market as a whole, according to research by David A. Hsieh, a finance professor at Duke.	cause_general
Still, even mediocre managers, after a lucky year or two, are able to attract gobs of capital and charge ''2 and 20.''	distant_evaluation
So are today's hedge fund managers really worth it?	distant_evaluation
We're talking about real money here.	cause_general
Sure, but only if they deliver the sort of performance that Mr. Simons has, and very few will in the years ahead.	distant_expectations_consequences
More to the point, it's extremely difficult to know who the stars will be.	distant_evaluation
In all sorts of walks of life, people tend to think that the past is a better predictor of the future than it really is.	distant_evaluation
That's why journeyman baseball players -- a Yankees pitcher named Carl Pavano comes to mind -- are able to sign huge contracts based on a single good season.	distant_evaluation
It's also why so many investors chase returns.	distant_evaluation
The genius of the world's hedge fund managers isn't only in how they invest their money.	distant_evaluation
It also lies in having set up an industry that takes advantage of a timeless human trait.	distant_evaluation
ECONOMIX E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com	error
Today, Alpha magazine will release another big list, and this one offers a chance to answer another, arguably more important, question: Are these billionaire hedge fund managers really worth it?	main
The reason hedge funds are a license to print money is their fee structure.	cause_specific
A typical fund charges a 2 percent management fee, which means that it keeps 2 cents of every dollar that it manages, regardless of performance.	cause_specific
Mutual funds, on average, charge about 1 percent.	cause_general
WANTED: Central banker who can curb ''irrational exuberance'' among stock market investors.	error
After setting records on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, the A shares, those traded in yuan, fell 0.47 percent in Shanghai and 0.6 percent in Shenzhen on Thursday as investors responded to the warning.	cause_specific
But the warning was not news to Mr. Zhou and other Chinese officials.	distant_evaluation
The central bank, securities regulators and prominent business executives have all been cautioning investors that buying stocks is not a guaranteed path to riches -- all with less apparent effect than Mr. Greenspan.	cause_general
''Will the Shanghai market correct at some stage?	distant_evaluation
Yes, that's inevitable,'' said Michael R. P. Smith, the chief executive of HSBC's extensive Asian operations.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Valuations are too high, I think; you can't sustain P/E multiples of 40, 50 times.''	distant_evaluation
The economy is booming, but fairly low inflation, 3 percent, also makes for a conundrum similar to what Mr. Greenspan faced as Federal Reserve chairman: it is harder for Mr. Zhou to justify raising interest rates significantly.	distant_evaluation
For Mr. Zhou, there is a further complication in that he faces considerable uncertainty about his personal future.	distant_evaluation
Five years into his current job, he turns 60 next year, and so by Chinese standards is due for a transfer or promotion.	cause_general
''It could come at any time; I tend to think it will happen before the 17th Party Congress,'' expected in October or November, said Victor Shih, a Chinese banking specialist at Northwestern.	distant_expectations_consequences
Statesmen with international credibility preferred.	error
Whoever succeeds Mr. Zhou confronts one of the toughest challenges of any financial policy maker.	distant_expectations_consequences
Chinese families eager to make money are opening brokerage accounts around the country, with the number of new accounts rocketing from several thousand a day two years ago to nearly 300,000 a day this month.	cause_general
Investors leaving a Shanghai brokerage firm on Wednesday were exuberant, as the Shanghai A share index closed at 4,354.	distant_evaluation
Chen Zhiwei, a restaurant chef, said, ''With more new stocks listed, the bullish trend will keep going until the index hits 15,000.''	distant_anecdotal
Like Mr. Greenspan in the heat of the Internet frenzy, Mr. Zhou and his colleagues in the Chinese government have been cautious about trying to pop the bubble themselves.	distant_evaluation
The Chinese government chose administrative measures, instead of market forces like higher interest rates, to prevent the economy from overheating in 2004 and to curb real estate speculation over the last two years.	distant_historical
The government has taken a few such measures this year, like investigating fund managers to make sure that they do not engage in self-dealing at the expense of their clients, and requiring this week that new brokerage customers sign forms acknowledging that they understand the risks of stocks.	cause_general
But stocks sailed higher on Wednesday after an announcement by the finance ministry and State Administration of Taxation that the government had no plans to raise taxes on share transactions, an approach the government has sometimes taken in the past to curb speculation.	cause_specific
Cash is pouring into the stock market partly because money is pouring into China in general.	cause_general
With the Chinese government intervening heavily in currency markets to hold down the value of the yuan against the dollar, China is on course for a surplus this year of up to $400 billion in the current account, the broadest measure of trade.	distant_expectations_consequences
Availability soon.	error
The Chinese leadership has shown considerable caution in allowing the currency to appreciate.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Zhou declared Wednesday morning that gradualism would remain China's policy as it pursues a long-term strategy of making the yuan more ''flexible.''	distant_evaluation
Chinese officials frequently refer to flexibility in describing a willingness to see more intraday volatility in the yuan, which remains tightly linked to the dollar.	distant_evaluation
But that does not necessarily mean faster appreciation of the yuan.	distant_evaluation
Raising interest rates, a conventional cure for asset speculation, runs the risk of attracting even more foreign investment to China.	distant_expectations_consequences
The People's Bank of China has raised interest rates only four times in the last 13 months, while also raising eight times the percentage of assets that commercial banks must keep as reserves at the central bank.	cause_general
Partly because the People's Bank of China does not have nearly the same independence as the Federal Reserve and partly because Chinese economic policy makers have shunned the celebrity surrounding many of their overseas counterparts, Mr. Zhou has not attracted as much attention as Mr. Greenspan.	distant_evaluation
But now he is the subject of a guessing game about possible successors -- and about the extent to which career jockeying may make public officials leery of unpopular decisions.	distant_evaluation
The most commonly cited potential governors are Shang Fulin, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission; Guo Shuqing, Communist Party secretary of the China Construction Bank; and Wu Xiaoling, who is the central bank's senior deputy governor but at 60 may already be deemed too old to succeed Mr. Zhou.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Zhou was president of China Construction Bank and then chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission before taking over leadership of the central bank, so Mr. Shang and Mr. Guo could each be viewed as possibly following in his footsteps.	distant_evaluation
Too bad Alan Greenspan, who does not speak Chinese, can't apply.	distant_evaluation
As for Mr. Zhou himself, he is cited by some experts as a contender to rise as high as deputy prime minister of China -- if he can stay popular a few more months.	distant_expectations_consequences
But a possible slump in the stock market could hurt Mr. Zhou's future prospects -- even if damage to the broader economy may be limited.	distant_expectations_consequences
Some experts, like Jonathan Anderson, the chief Asia economist at UBS, suggest that because the rising stock market seems to have had little effect on the rate of economic growth over the last year and a half, it may not have much effect going down.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It's very hard indeed to see where the negative growth impact would come from,'' he said in a research report on Thursday, noting that equities form a tenth of total household and business wealth in China.	distant_evaluation
As he left a Shanghai brokerage firm on Wednesday, Wang Jianping, a 52-year-old driver, said that he invested only his own savings in the stock market and never borrowed to buy shares.	distant_anecdotal
''If I make money, that's great -- if I lose money, it won't hurt my quality of life and it will be O.K.,'' he said.	distant_anecdotal
''If I don't make money on the investment in my lifetime, I'll leave it to my children and grandchildren.''	distant_anecdotal
The bigger worry, but much harder to calculate, lies in whether the country's banks have unintentionally or secretly lent heavily to stock market speculators who would not be able to repay their loans if the market collapsed.	distant_evaluation
Chinese banking regulations bar banks from issuing margin loans directly to stock market investors.	cause_general
But banks are allowed to lend to securities firms, which in turn provide margin financing.	cause_general
One of the biggest challenges for Chinese leaders these days lies in when and how to rein in the country's soaring stock market and, just as important, whom to pick as the next governor of the central bank.	main
State-controlled media have also reported this year that regulators are looking into whether stock speculators are misrepresenting their intentions to banks, claiming that they need loans for real estate or other purposes.	cause_general
For lack of data, credit analysts have been unable to assess the scale of bank exposure to the stock market.	cause_general
''We can't see it,'' said Charlene Chu, an analyst in the Beijing office of Fitch Ratings, ''on the balance sheets.''	distant_anecdotal
The challenges are closely intertwined.	distant_evaluation
Like Mr. Greenspan nearly a decade ago, Zhou Xiaochuan, the current governor of the People's Bank of China, faces the knotty question of what to do about a speculative mania that has drawn millions of people with limited investing experience into betting their savings on the stock market.	cause_general
Mr. Greenspan, now 81, struggled to contain the tech stock boom, issuing his famous ''irrational exuberance'' warning in December 1996 only to watch the American market keep rising and finally collapse in early 2000.	distant_historical
He tried his hand at forecasting Chinese stocks on Wednesday, telling an audience in Madrid by satellite that the Chinese market was ''clearly unsustainable'' and could undergo a ''dramatic contraction.''	distant_expectations_consequences
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela’s government said on Monday that a jailed opposition lawmaker killed himself by jumping from the 10th floor of the state intelligence agency headquarters (SEBIN) where he was being held, but his party said he was murdered by the government.	main
He did not provide any evidence and did he say what led him to believe that Alban was killed.	cause_specific
The party said that Alban’s arrest was owing to statements he made at recent United Nations meetings in New York City denouncing humans rights violations in Venezuela.	distant_evaluation
The government had previously given no reason for his arrest.	cause_general
On Monday, Reverol said Alban had also been investigated for “destabilizing activities directed from abroad.”	cause_general
The chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Bob Corker, called on Maduro to explain the reasons for Alban’s death.	main_consequence
Corker was in Caracas on Monday to meet with government officials and the opposition to assess Venezuela’s economic crisis.	cause_general
“This is disturbing and the government has a responsibility to ensure all understand how that could have happened,” Corker, a Republican, said on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
The United States imposed new sanctions on several of Maduro’s top allies last week as President Donald Trump urged UN members to support a “restoration of democracy” in Venezuela.	cause_general
Alban’s assistant, Mileidy Blanco, said she had begged him to leave Venezuela with his family.	distant_evaluation
“And he didn’t do it.	distant_evaluation
Mourners of the municipal lawmaker Fernando Alban shout slogans in front of riot police members standing outside the headquarters of Bolivarian National Intelligence Service (SEBIN) in Caracas, Venezuela October 8, 2018.	error
He loved the country too much,” she said in an interview outside the SEBIN’s headquarters, known as “The Tomb” for its underground detention facility.	distant_evaluation
The opposition and rights groups have said that Maduro’s administration is holding hundreds of political prisoners on trumped-up charges intended to stifle dissent.	cause_specific
The United Nations has said detainees are often subjected to ill treatment, including some documented cases that amount to torture.	distant_evaluation
Authorities have arrested at least 30 people linked to the drone explosions on Aug. 2, which injured seven soldiers.	cause_general
The government has denied that it is detaining people as political prisoners and has said that they were fairly jailed.	cause_specific
Slideshow (9 Images)	error
Alban’s lawyer, Joel Garcia, told reporters that when he last saw Alban on Sunday “he was not beaten, he was fine.” He said Alban told him that he had been interrogated but not tortured.	distant_evaluation
The Organization of American States (OAS) condemned Alban’s death.	distant_evaluation
“Direct responsibility of a regime that tortures and murders.	distant_evaluation
This criminal dictatorship must go now from Venezuela,” OAS Secretary General Luis Almagro said on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins	error
Municipal lawmaker Fernando Alban, 56, was jailed last Friday for alleged involvement in the explosion of two drones during a military parade in August that was led by President Nicolas Maduro, Interior Minister Nestor Reverol said.	cause_general
“At the moment he was going to be transported to court, while he was in the SEBIN waiting room, he jumped from the window of the building and fell, causing his death,” Reverol wrote in a post on Twitter.	cause_specific
That account differed from the one by Chief Prosecutor Tarek Saab, who said in televised statements that Alban had asked to use a bathroom and jumped from there.	cause_specific
The opposition First Justice party, for which Alban was a Caracas municipal counselor, said he was murdered.	cause_specific
“With great pain and thirst for justice we tell the people of Venezuela ... that Councilman Fernando Alban was murdered at the hands of the regime of Nicolas Maduro,” the party said.	cause_specific
First Justice’s national coordinator, Julio Borges, said Alban’s lifeless body was thrown from the SEBIN’s headquarters on Caracas’ Plaza Venezuela.	cause_specific
CHICAGO (Reuters) - White Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke was found guilty of second-degree murder on Friday for the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald, touching off celebratory street demonstrations in a case that had laid bare tensions between the black community and police.	main
Police killings of mostly unarmed black men elsewhere in the United States helped fuel the Black Lives Matter movement and became an issue in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.	distant_historical
Chicago had its own unrest when a police dashboard camera video was released more than a year after the shooting which occurred on the night of Oct. 20, 2014.	distant_historical
The video showed Van Dyke shooting McDonald as he walked down the middle of the street, veering slightly away from the officer.	distant_historical
The aftermath led to the dismissal of the city’s police superintendent and calls for Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel to resign.	distant_historical
After Friday’s verdict, small, peaceful demonstrations assembled in central Chicago.	main_consequence
About 100 people marched toward a gathering spot.	main_consequence
“Whose streets?	distant_evaluation
Our streets!” some chanted.	distant_evaluation
One protester bellowed into a megaphone: “This is what black power looks like.”	distant_evaluation
Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke is seen in this booking photo released by Cook County Sheriff's Office in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., October 5, 2018.	error
Van Dyke, 40, was also convicted of 16 counts of aggravated battery, one count for each of the shots fired.	cause_general
Courtesy Cook County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
“We are in celebration mode but we also want to hold more people accountable,” said one of the protesters, Darius Parker, 28, who estimated the crowd would have been 10 times larger had Van Dyke been acquitted.	distant_anecdotal
The 12-person jury, which included one black person, began deliberations on Thursday afternoon.	cause_specific
After failing to reach a verdict on Thursday night, they began anew on Friday, finding enough mitigating circumstances to convict Van Dyke of second- rather than first-degree murder, jurors told reporters.	cause_specific
“In Van Dyke’s mind, he was doing the right thing.	distant_evaluation
He was experiencing an extreme threat ... he needed to protect himself,” one man on the jury told reporters.	distant_evaluation
The jurors who spoke to reporters were not identified by name.	cause_general
But jurors were swayed by the video, which prosecutors showed repeatedly during the three-week trial and which jurors reviewed during deliberations.	distant_evaluation
“We kept watching the video where he kept making the steps forward,” said another juror.	distant_evaluation
“We watched that more than once.	distant_evaluation
McDonald, 17, was killed while armed with a knife as he walked down the center of a street in the third-largest U.S. city.	distant_historical
More than three times.”	distant_evaluation
Van Dyke testified in his own defense, saying he feared for his safety and fired because McDonald was advancing on him.	distant_evaluation
Both the officer and his lawyers argued that the angle of the video did not reflect the incident from Van Dyke’s perspective.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (5 Images)	error
But Van Dyke’s testimony seemed rehearsed and “we just didn’t buy it,” a third juror said.	distant_evaluation
Defense lawyer Daniel Herbert said he would appeal and push for a change of venue, which was denied to the defense in this trial.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We knew coming into it with a Cook County venue in this case with the Cook County jury there was not a chance in the world we were going to come away with a complete not guilty,” Herbert told reporters.	distant_evaluation
Jurors said they faulted Van Dyke for escalating the conflict when he could have waited for more police assistance, such as an officer with a non-lethal Taser weapon.	cause_specific
Van Dyke sat emotionless as the verdict was read.	cause_general
Cook County Circuit Court Judge Vincent Gaughan immediately revoked bail and Van Dyke was escorted out of the courtroom and into Cook County Jail.	main_consequence
He faces up to 20 years in prison for the second-degree murder conviction and up to 30 years for each of the 16 counts of aggravated battery.	cause_general
His conviction seemed to quell any potential unrest of the kind that has occurred in other U.S. cities in recent years when white officers have been cleared of charges in the shooting deaths of black men.	distant_evaluation
“The end of this trial brings an opportunity for the community to come together,” special prosecutor Joseph McMahon told reporters.	distant_expectations_consequences
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Police in Mexico have arrested a couple suspected of involvement in the murder of at least 10 women, as well as the sale of a baby girl, authorities said late on Friday.	main
Thousands of women have disappeared or been murdered during a sharp increase in violence in Mexico in recent years.	distant_historical
According to government statistics, there were at least 2,585 suspected murders of women last year, up from 1,755 in 2015.	distant_historical
Of the total, the largest number were in the State of Mexico, the most populous region of the country.	distant_historical
Ecatepec has become notorious as a center of the killings.	distant_evaluation
Alejandro Gomez, attorney general of the State of Mexico, which borders the capital, said in a video posted on Facebook that the couple were tracked down during a search for three missing women, one of whom disappeared along with her baby.	cause_general
The couple, a man and a woman, were arrested on Thursday after they left a house in the Mexico City suburb of Ecatepec with a baby carriage in which investigators had hoped to find the missing child, Gomez said in the video.	cause_general
Instead, they found a black bag containing human remains.	cause_general
Subsequent investigations found the couple had previously deposited other human remains nearby.	cause_general
Under questioning, the man identified as Juan Carlos N detailed taking part in the murders of at least 10 women, Gomez added.	cause_specific
The motive for the killings was unclear.	cause_general
The couple admitted to having sold the missing two-month-old baby girl, who was found safe and returned to her grandmother.	cause_specific
The couple who acquired the baby were arrested, Gomez said.	main
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A man who police said fled to California from Texas after being questioned in the disappearance of two relatives was charged on Wednesday in Los Angeles with bludgeoning eight men, three fatally, in a string of attacks aimed mostly at homeless victims.	main
If convicted of murder, he faces a minimum sentence of life without parole.	distant_expectations_consequences
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials said Tuesday that Escobar had been deported back to El Salvador six times between 1977 and 2011 and has six felony convictions for burglary and illegal re-entry.	distant_historical
Police have said he spent five years in a Texas prison for burglary from 1995 to 2000.	distant_historical
Escobar in 2016 filed an appeal of his immigration case, which U.S. courts granted in December of that year, and he was released from ICE custody on an “order of supervision” in January 2017, ICE spokesperson Paige Hughes said by email.	distant_historical
Escobar, now jailed without bond, briefly appeared in Los Angeles Superior Court on Wednesday, but the arraignment was postponed until Nov. 8.	cause_general
No plea was entered.	cause_general
Judge Gustavo Sztraicher granted a defense motion barring public dissemination of the defendant’s image, including by photograph or courtroom sketch drawing, so as not to prejudice potential witnesses who might identify him for prosecutors.	cause_general
Escobar appeared expressionless and said nothing except to answer, “Yes, sir,” when asked if he agreed to the postponement.	distant_evaluation
Defense lawyers declined to speak to reporters.	cause_general
Meanwhile, police in Houston said Escobar was a “person of interest” in the investigation into the disappearance of an aunt and uncle with whom Escobar lived before they were reported missing in late August by other relatives.	distant_evaluation
Ramon Escobar, 47, appears in a booking photo provided by the Harris County Sheriff's Office in Houston, Texas, U.S., September 27, 2018.	error
The aunt’s van was later found burned and abandoned in Galveston, Texas, according to Houston police spokesman Kese Smith.	cause_general
Escobar was questioned by Houston homicide detectives on Aug. 30, but they lacked probable cause to detain him at the time, Smith told Reuters on Wednesday, adding that Houston detectives would seek to “re-interview” Escobar in California.	distant_expectations_consequences
Hayes said Escobar “fled” Texas by car soon after he was questioned in Houston, arriving in Los Angeles on Sept. 5.	distant_evaluation
The first attack police linked to him occurred three days later.	cause_general
Harris County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
Ramon Alberto Escobar, 47, an El Salvador native and convicted burglar who has been repeatedly deported from the United States, was arrested on Monday after he allegedly clubbed a sleeping man in the head with bolt-cutters in the ocean-front city of Santa Monica, authorities said.	cause_specific
Seven other men were similarly attacked in Santa Monica and Los Angeles earlier this month, according to the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office.	cause_specific
Police have said one victim was sleeping under a pier after a night of fishing and that most of the rest of the victims were homeless, including three men battered with a baseball bat in downtown Los Angeles on Sept. 16.	cause_general
Two of those victims and the man attacked beneath the pier died of their injuries.	cause_specific
Some survivors were left in a coma.	cause_specific
On Wednesday, the district attorney’s office formally charged Escobar with three counts of murder, five counts of attempted murder and four counts of robbery.	main
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - More people may face charges for the murder of a Slovak investigative journalist, the country’s top prosecutor said on Monday, after police made their first arrests for the killing that rattled the nation and toppled its government.	main
Police arrested a woman on Friday identified as A.Z.	distant_evaluation
and said she had likely paid the money to the killers but the motive and whether she worked for someone else was unclear.	distant_evaluation
A police investigator told a briefing that weapons, cars, a cell phone used during the crime, and a bullet corresponding to the cartridge case found at the crime scene were seized in home searches last week.	cause_general
Police chief Milan Lucansky said the suspected killer was a former police officer.	distant_evaluation
In his final story, published posthumously, Kuciak reported on an Italian living in Slovakia with past business links to two Slovaks who later worked in then-prime minister Robert Fico’s office.	cause_general
Both of the Slovaks resigned but deny connections to the murder.	distant_evaluation
Their Italian former business partner has also denied connections with the mafia and the murder but was detained on a European drug trafficking warrant in March and extradited to Italy in May.	distant_evaluation
Weeks of protests that drew tens of thousands in March forced the departure of long-serving leader Fico as well as the interior minister and police chief but the coalition government remains in power.	cause_general
"FILE PHOTO: Demonstrators attend a protest called ""Let's stand for decency in Slovakia"" in reaction to the murder of Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee Martina Kusnirova, in Bratislava, Slovakia March 9, 2018."	error
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa/File Photo	error
The killing of Jan Kuciak, 27, and his fiancée at their home outside the capital Bratislava in February stoked public anger over corruption and prompted the largest protests in Slovakia since the end of Communist rule in 1989.	cause_specific
Kuciak probed fraud involving businessmen with Slovak political ties and had worked on a story about suspected Mafia links of Italians working in Slovakia.	cause_general
Police carried out raids last week and a court on Sunday ordered four people jailed until trial for the murders.	cause_general
“We have more steps prepared which we want to take, so there is high probability there will be more charges,” Slovak general prosecutor Jaromir Ciznar told a news conference.	main
“We’re still in the stage where charges have been pressed and we should not be too optimistic but the evidence is very strong,” he added.	distant_evaluation
Prosecutors said the killer was paid 70,000 euros, of which 50,000 euros was cash and the rest forgiven debt.	cause_general
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - A Slovak court on Sunday ordered four people jailed until their trial for the murder of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee, a state prosecutor said.	main
His final story, published posthumously, reported on an Italian living in Slovakia with past business links to two Slovaks who later worked in the office of then-prime minister Fico.	cause_general
Both of the Slovaks resigned, but deny connections to the murder.	distant_evaluation
Their Italian former business partner has also denied having connections with the mafia and the murder, but was detained on a European drug trafficking warrant in March and extradited to Italy in May.	distant_evaluation
Weeks of public protests in March eventually forced the departure of the long-serving Fico but his three-party coalition has remained in power under Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini, who comes from the Smer party, which Fico still heads.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Candles are seen in front of the Government of the Slovak Republic's building during march in honour of murdered Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend Martina Kusnirova in Bratislava, Slovakia, March 2, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa/File Photo	error
The February killings sparked nationwide protests that toppled the government of Robert Fico, who had run Slovakia for all but two of the past 12 years.	cause_specific
Three suspects were detained in a house raid on Thursday morning and charged with murder on Friday.	cause_specific
The fourth suspect, a woman detained separately on Friday, has been charged with participating in the murder, which may have included helping, planning, ordering or organising the killing, Kuciak family’s lawyer Daniel Lipsic told Reuters.	cause_specific
Authorities released no further details on the four suspects and it is not yet clear when the trial might take place.	cause_general
Kuciak had, among other things, investigated fraud involving businessmen with Slovak political ties, and the suspected mafia links of Italians with businesses in Slovakia.	cause_general
A prosecutor said this month the February murder was likely a contract killing related to Kuciak’s work.	distant_evaluation
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Rap mogul Marion “Suge” Knight pleaded no contest in a Los Angeles court on Thursday to a charge of manslaughter for a 2015 hit-and-run killing, accepting a 28-year prison sentence under a deal with prosecutors days before his murder trial was to begin.	main
Jury selection in the murder trial had been set to start on Monday in Los Angeles Superior Court.	distant_expectations_consequences
As part of the agreement to plead no contest to a single count of voluntary manslaughter, all other charges in the case were dropped.	cause_general
Two separate criminal cases in which he was charged with robbery and making criminal threats will also be dismissed when he is formally sentenced on Oct. 4, prosecutors said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Knight’s lawyers previously contended he accidentally struck the two men with his vehicle while trying to flee what he thought was an ambush attempt.	distant_evaluation
But prosecutors said Knight traded punches with Sloan through the window of his truck before putting the vehicle into reverse, knocking Sloan and Carter to the ground, then pulling forward to run over both men.	distant_evaluation
The incident was captured on videotape by the restaurant’s surveillance cameras.	cause_general
Knight, sporting a graying beard and wearing an orange jail uniform and dark-rimmed glasses, said little during Thursday’s proceedings, mostly giving one- or two-word answers to a series of procedural questions from Superior Court Judge Ronald Coen.	cause_general
But at one point when asked by the judge if he understood his plea could lead to deportation were he not a U.S. citizen, Knight joked: “Is ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) gonna come and get me?”	distant_evaluation
Knight has long been known as much for his run-ins with the law and brushes with violence and as for his career as a rap music executive who promoted the likes of Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre and Tupac Shakur in the 1990s.	distant_evaluation
Knight was sent to prison in October 1996 for violating probation on a previous assault case when he allegedly kicked a man during a scuffle at a Las Vegas hotel.	distant_historical
"Marion ""Suge"" Knight (L), with attorney Albert DeBlanc, appears in Los Angeles Superior Court for a fatal 2015 hit-and-run, in Los Angeles, California, U.S., September 20, 2018."	error
That scuffle in September 1996 took place hours before Shakur was shot to death in a drive-by attack while riding in a car with Knight after a Mike Tyson boxing match.	distant_historical
Knight, who was at the wheel, was slightly wounded himself.	distant_historical
Months later, rap artist Christopher Wallace, known as Notorious B.I.G.	distant_historical
and signed to a rival record label, was shot to death in Los Angeles.	distant_historical
Knight, who was incarcerated at the time, was named by police a few years later as a suspect in the Wallace slaying but was never charged.	distant_historical
Both rap murders remain unsolved.	cause_general
"Marion ""Suge"" Knight (L), with attorney Albert DeBlanc, appears in Los Angeles Superior Court for a fatal 2015 hit-and-run, in Los Angeles, California, U.S., September 20, 2018."	error
Gary Coronado/Los Angeles Times/Pool via REUTERS	error
Knight was released from prison in April 2001.	distant_historical
The following year, a federal racketeering probe of Knight and his record label, stemming from allegations of murder, drug trafficking, money laundering and gun running, was closed with the company pleading guilty to misdemeanor tax charges.	distant_historical
Gary Coronado/Los Angeles Times/Pool via REUTERS	error
In addition to being injured in the Shakur slaying, Knight was shot and wounded during a party at a Miami Beach nightspot in 2005 and in 2014 at a West Hollywood nightclub.	distant_historical
In pleading no contest, equivalent to a guilty plea under California law, the 53-year-old co-founder of influential hip-hop label Death Row Records admitted using a “deadly and dangerous weapon” when he ran down two men with his pickup truck.	cause_general
One of the victims, 55-year-old Terry Carter, later died of his injuries.	cause_specific
The second man, Cle “Bone” Sloan, was left with a badly mangled left foot and head injuries.	cause_general
The deadly confrontation occurred on Jan. 29, 2015, outside a hamburger stand in the Los Angeles suburb of Compton, following a heated argument on the set of a commercial for the film “Straight Outta Compton.”	distant_historical
Knight, who was out on bail in a robbery case at the time, fled the scene but was later arrested.	distant_historical
Had Knight been convicted of murder and attempted murder as originally charged, he would have faced a mandatory sentence of 25 years to life in prison.	distant_expectations_consequences
CHICAGO (Reuters) - The white Chicago policeman who shot a black teen 16 times in 2014 committed an act of unjustifiable murder, a prosecutor told jurors on Thursday, while the defense argued that the officer had seen the youngster carrying a knife and feared for his safety.	main
Prosecutor Jody Gleason told jurors on Thursday that an officer can only use deadly force “when it’s reasonable and necessary,” a standard that she said Van Dyke had fallen short of meeting.	cause_specific
“This case has been about exaggerating the threat and trying to hide behind the police shield,” Gleason said.	cause_specific
“Why?	cause_specific
Because there’s no justification for shooting Laquan McDonald that night.	cause_specific
Not one shot.	cause_specific
Not the first shot.	cause_specific
Not the 16th shot.”	cause_specific
Prosecutors say the video, taken from a dashboard camera and repeatedly shown to the jury, shows McDonald was not moving toward Van Dyke when he began firing and that he continued to shoot after McDonald fell to the ground.	cause_specific
But Van Dyke’s attorney Daniel Herbert argued that the video did not show the scene from Van Dyke’s perspective.	cause_specific
Van Dyke, he said, arrived as the “threat level” was rising and had been trained to continue shooting until the threat had ended.	cause_specific
The trial has intensified a debate on race relations and police use of force in the third-largest U.S. city.	distant_evaluation
“It’s a tragedy, but not a murder,” Herbert said.	cause_specific
“And it’s a tragedy that could have been prevented with one simple step.	cause_specific
At any point throughout that 20-some-minute rampage, had Laquan McDonald dropped that knife, he’d be here today.”	cause_specific
Van Dyke took the witness stand in his own defense on Tuesday, telling jurors he felt threatened because McDonald was advancing toward him at the time he began firing.	cause_specific
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
The officer said the dashboard camera video, which was taken from the side, does not show what occurred from his point of view.	cause_specific
Van Dyke’s lawyers have portrayed McDonald as an out-of-control, dangerous criminal who was under the influence of a drug.	cause_specific
The trial is now in its third week.	cause_general
The 12-person jury includes one black member.	cause_general
Jason Van Dyke, 40, is charged with first-degree murder, aggravated battery and official misconduct.	cause_general
He is the first Chicago police officer to face a murder charge for an on-duty incident in decades and could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
Following the closing arguments, the jury deliberated for several hours on Thursday afternoon.	cause_general
They will be sequestered at a hotel and will resume deliberating on Friday morning.	distant_expectations_consequences
Jurors are permitted to consider a lesser charge of second-degree murder as an alternative.	cause_general
The release of a video in 2015 that showed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald’s shooting sparked days of protest in Chicago, part of a wave of high-profile police killings of black men that has prompted a national conversation about race and policing.	distant_historical
The case will largely turn on whether jurors believe Van Dyke reasonably feared for his safety when he shot McDonald.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Candles are seen in front of the Government of the Slovak Republic's building during march in honour of murdered Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend Martina Kusnirova in Bratislava, Slovakia, March 2, 2018.	error
Both of the Slovaks resigned, but deny connections to the murder.	distant_evaluation
Their Italian former business partner has also denied having connections with the mafia and the murder, but was detained on a European drug trafficking warrant in March and extradited to Italy in May.	distant_evaluation
Weeks of public protests in March eventually forced the departure of the long-serving Fico and his interior minister, Robert Kalinak, as well as police chief Tibor Gaspar.	distant_historical
However, Fico’s three-party coalition has remained in power under Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini, who comes from the Smer party, which Fico still heads.	cause_general
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa/File Photo	error
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Three people have been charged in Slovakia’s with the premeditated murder of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee, which sparked nationwide protests and brought down the government.	main
Kuciak had, among other things, investigated fraud involving businessmen with Slovak political ties, and the suspected mafia links of Italians with businesses in Slovakia.	cause_general
A prosecutor said in March the murder was likely to have been a contract killing related to Kuciak’s work.	distant_historical
The state prosecutor was due to ask a judge to allow the suspects to be held in custody, the spokeswoman for the state prosecutor’s office said in an emailed statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
The suspects were detained in a house raid on Thursday morning.	cause_general
Five others detained in the same raid were released, the spokeswoman added.	cause_general
Kuciak’s final story, published posthumously, reported on an Italian living in Slovakia with past business links to two Slovaks who later worked in the office of then-prime minister Robert Fico.	cause_general
CAIRO (Reuters) - Egyptian prosecutors are investigating the death of a monk who was from the monastery where a bishop was murdered in July, a case that has rattled the biggest church in the Middle East.	main
Judicial sources said one of the monks accused of the killing, Wael Saad, known by his monastic name Isaiah al-Makari, had confessed during questioning to the murder.	cause_general
Egyptian media reported this week that Saad, at his first hearing, had denied killing Epiphanius and said he had confessed under pressure.	cause_general
In a statement last month, the prosecution said Saad had long had differences with his superiors, who had on one occasion investigated him for breaking monastery traditions.	distant_evaluation
The second monk accused of involvement in the murder, Ramon Rasmi Mansour, threw himself from the monastery roof this month.	cause_general
He has been treated in a Cairo hospital where he has also been questioned, judicial sources told Reuters.	cause_general
(Corrects month of murder in paragraph 1, says Zenon was confessional priest for one of the charged monks, not two in paragraph 2.)	cause_general
Zenon al-Makari, 45, died while being rushed to hospital after suffering severe stomach pains.	cause_specific
He had served as a confessional priest for one of two defrocked monks charged with the murder of the Bishop Epiphanius on July 29, fellow monks said.	cause_general
A Church spokesman said Zenon had suffered a “sudden health crisis” and prosecutors were investigating the cause of death.	distant_evaluation
Zenon was one of six monks that Coptic Church authorities had relocated away from the Abu Makar (Saint Macarius) Monastery some 110 km (70 miles) northwest of Cairo, a month after the murder there, on Aug. 25.	cause_general
Monks at the al-Muhharaq Monastery in Assiut, where Zenon was transferred, said he had been distressed and declined to mix with other monks.	distant_evaluation
He was on a list of witnesses scheduled to testify in the trial of the two former monks, which opened last week, according to a lawyer involved in the trial and a security source in Beheira province, where the hearing is taking place.	cause_general
The murder of Bishop Epiphanius had rocked the Church in a country where Christians make up an estimated 10 percent of the 96 million population.	distant_evaluation
Pope Tawadros immediately ordered a freeze on accepting new monks, a ban on monks leaving monasteries without permission, and a ban on clergy using social media.	cause_general
A demonstrator holds picture of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi during a protest in front of Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, October 5, 2018.	error
Since then, Turkish and Saudi officials have offered conflicting accounts of his disappearance, with Ankara saying there was no evidence that he had left the diplomatic mission and Riyadh saying he exited the premises the same day.	distant_evaluation
Earlier on Saturday Turkish officials said prosecutors had begun investigating Khashoggi’s disappearance and a spokesman for President Tayyip Erdogan’s AK Party said authorities would uncover his whereabouts.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Osman Orsal	error
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities believe that prominent Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who disappeared four days ago after entering Saudi Arabia’s consulate in Istanbul, was killed inside the consulate, two Turkish sources said on Saturday.	main
“The initial assessment of the Turkish police is that Mr. Khashoggi has been killed at the consulate of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul.	main
We believe that the murder was premeditated and the body was subsequently moved out of the consulate,” one Turkish official told Reuters.	main
The sources did not say how they believed the killing was carried out.	cause_general
Saudi Arabia’s consul-general told Reuters on Saturday his country was helping search for Khashoggi, and dismissed talk of his possible abduction.	cause_general
Khashoggi, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Washington for the past year fearing retribution for his critical views on Saudi policies, entered the consulate on Tuesday to secure documentation for his forthcoming marriage, according to his fiancee, who waited outside.	cause_specific
He has not been heard of since.	cause_specific
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovak authorities have identified a possible witness in the murder of Slovak journalist Jan Kuciak, whose killing last February led mass protests that forced the government to resign, a state prosecutor said on Monday.	main
The cabinet was reshuffled with Fico’s deputy Peter Pellegrini taking over as prime minister but the three-party center-left coalition stayed in power.	cause_general
The prosecutor, who declined to give his name, said authorities had also whittled down possible motives to two.	distant_evaluation
He held up a sketch of the possible witness depicting a white man with a beard and dark hair who appeared to be in his late 20s to early 30s.	cause_general
He provided no other details.	cause_general
“Despite initial mistakes in investigation, we have narrowed down possible motives from 30 to two,” the prosecutor said.	distant_evaluation
“I believe we will be successful in the end.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The update on Monday came after more than 300 Slovak journalists and publishers last month criticized police for the lack of progress in the murder investigation and alleged corruption described by Kuciak.	cause_general
“As no fundamental changes to the police or to the prosecutorial bodies have taken place, we have doubts about the independence of the investigation,” they said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Kuciak had covered Slovak businessmen mentioned in the Panama Papers and also probed fraud cases involving businessmen with Slovak political ties.	cause_general
He had also been looking into suspected mafia links of Italians with businesses in Slovakia.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Candles are seen in front of the Government of the Slovak Republic's building during march in honour of murdered Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend Martina Kusnirova in Bratislava, Slovakia, March 2, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa	error
It was the first development in the case in the six months since the murder.	cause_general
“This person may have been present at or close to the crime scene around the time the crime was committed and may have information about the crime,” the prosecutor overseeing the case told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
He declined to answer questions on whether that person was a suspect or just a witness.	cause_general
Kuciak, who had written about political corruption in Slovakia, was found shot dead along with his fiancee Martina Kusnirova at their home outside Bratislava in February.	cause_specific
They were both 27.	cause_general
The murder - which police have called a professional hit - raised fears over media freedom in ex-communist Eastern Europe, and led to mass protests across the nation that forced the departure of previous police chief Tibor Gaspar as well as Prime Minister Robert Fico and interior minister Robert Kalinak.	cause_general
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovak police have detained people suspected of the murder of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee, Slovak media outlets reported on Thursday, citing police sources.	main
The police said earlier on its Facebook page it had detained persons suspected of a violent crime and was carrying out home searches but did not say in which case.	main
A spokesman declined to comment further.	cause_general
Media, including SME and Aktuality.sk, where Kuciak had worked, reported police were carrying out home searches in the south of the country.	cause_specific
Kuciak had, among other things, investigated fraud cases involving businessmen with Slovak political ties.	cause_general
He had also looked into suspected mafia links between Italy and businesses in Slovakia.	cause_general
Kuciak was found shot dead along with Kusnirova at their home outside Bratislava in February.	distant_historical
They were both 27.	cause_general
In his final story, published posthumously, he reported on an Italian living in Slovakia with past business links to two Slovaks who later worked in then-prime minister Robert Fico’s office.	cause_general
Both of the Slovaks resigned but deny connections to the murder.	distant_evaluation
Their Italian former business partner has also denied having connections with the mafia and the murder but was detained on a European drug trafficking warrant in March and extradited to Italy in May.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Candles are seen in front of the Government of the Slovak Republic's building during march in honour of murdered Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend Martina Kusnirova in Bratislava, Slovakia, March 2, 2018.	error
PROGRESS WELCOMED	distant_evaluation
Weeks of public protests in March eventually forced the departure of long-serving leader Fico and his interior minister Robert Kalinak, as well as police chief Tibor Gaspar.	distant_historical
However, Fico’s three-party government coalition has remained in power under Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini, who comes from the ruling Smer party which Fico still leads.	cause_general
Pellegrini welcomed news of the detentions in a social media post on Thursday.	distant_evaluation
A spokeswoman said the prime minister had no official information on the police action.	distant_evaluation
“The investigation and punishment of those guilty of this murder is one of the priorities of my government,” Pellegrini wrote.	distant_evaluation
The investigation is the biggest in the country’s history.	cause_general
Interior Minister Denisa Sakova said on Thursday investigators had interviewed more than 200 people.	cause_general
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
A prosecutor said in March the murder was likely to have been a contract killing related to Kuciak’s work.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa/File Photo	error
Police released this month a sketch of a possible witness and said they had narrowed down possible motives to two.	cause_general
While demonstrations are no longer being held regularly in the country of 5.4 million, organisers of the protests that numbered in the tens of thousands in March and April have vowed to keep up pressure on the government and to ensure a thorough investigation.	distant_expectations_consequences
They said on Thursday that while they welcomed progress in the case, they would still hold an anti-government rally in Bratislava on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The news was confirmed by a lawyer for the family of Kuciak, whose killing seven months ago rocked the central European country, stoking anger over public corruption and sparking the biggest street protests since the fall of communism in 1989.	cause_specific
“In the early morning hours today police detained suspects in the premeditated murder of Jan Kuciak and (his fiancee) Martina Kusnirova,” lawyer Daniel Lipsic said on Facebook.	main
He told Reuters by text message that he had been briefed by prosecutors.	cause_general
Lipsic later told the website of daily newspaper SME that he was convinced there was enough evidence to justify keeping the suspects in custody.	distant_expectations_consequences
Local media reported that eight people were being held.	cause_general
Reuters could not immediately verify that number.	cause_general
CHICAGO (Reuters) - The white Chicago police officer who shot to death a black teenager in 2014 told jurors at his murder trial on Tuesday that he felt threatened when he opened fire, as he took the witness stand in his own defense.	main
McDonald waved his knife and was still holding the knife when he fell to the ground, Van Dyke testified, adding that he shot at the knife.	main
Van Dyke said he did not know how many shots he fired at the time and stopped shooting when McDonald fell and when his gun was empty.	main
“I’m yelling at him, ‘Drop that knife,’” Van Dyke said.	main
“I just wanted him to get rid of that knife.”	main
Prosecutors have said Van Dyke was not justified in shooting McDonald.	distant_evaluation
Jurors have repeatedly viewed a video of the incident, which prosecutors have argued shows that McDonald was not moving toward Van Dyke at the time he began firing.	distant_evaluation
The public release of the dashboard camera video, which came after a journalist filed a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit, sparked days of protests in Chicago.	cause_general
Under cross-examination by a prosecutor, Van Dyke said that video and an animated video of the shooting played for the jury do not show what occurred from his point of view.	main
“It’s not my perspective,” Van Dyke said.	main
The prosecution grilled Van Dyke on his actions in the moments before the shooting, and noted that the officer continued to shoot after McDonald fell to the ground.	cause_general
Chicago police Officer Jason Van Dyke stands with his attorneys during his murder trial in the shooting death of Laquan McDonald, in Chicago, Illinois, October 3, 2018.	error
“I shot at that knife,” Van Dyke said.	main
“My focus was just on that knife and I just wanted him to get rid of that knife.	main
That’s all I could think.”	main
“Cause to me it seemed like he was getting back up and he was in the fight,” Van Dyke said later.	main
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
Van Dyke’s lawyers have portrayed McDonald as an unruly, threatening criminal who was under the influence of a drug.	cause_general
Van Dyke also told jurors he had drawn his gun several times in his career, but had never fired it in the line of duty before the Oct. 20, 2014 incident.	main
“I’m very proud of that,” he said.	main
The trial, now in its third week, will continue on Wednesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The 12-person jury includes one black member.	cause_general
REUTERS/John J. Kim/Chicago Tribune/Pool via REUTERS	error
Jason Van Dyke, 40, is accused of shooting 17-year-old Laquan McDonald 16 times and faces charges of first-degree murder, aggravated battery and official misconduct in a case that has focused attention on race relations and policing in the third-largest U.S. city.	cause_specific
He is the first Chicago police officer to face a murder charge for an on-duty incident in decades.	cause_general
His decision to testify was not revealed until he took the stand.	cause_general
Wiping tears away at times, Van Dyke testified that McDonald “never stopped” advancing toward him, getting about 10 to 15 feet (3 to 4.5 meters) away.	main
“His face had no expression,” Van Dyke said under questioning from his lawyer.	main
“His eyes were buggin’ out.”	main
BOSTON (Reuters) - An octogenarian former New England mob boss was sentenced to life in prison on Thursday as the grown children of a nightclub owner he was convicted of murdering in 1993 accused him of devastating their lives and being “pure evil.”	main
The case harkened back to an era when organized crime in Boston was run by Salemme, who headed the New England family of La Cosa Nostra in the 1990s, and James “Whitey” Bulger, the gangster now serving life in prison whose crimes were depicted in the 2015 film “Black Mass.”	cause_general
Prosecutors said Salemme had a secret interest in a music venue called The Channel that DiSarro purchased.	distant_evaluation
Stephen “The Rifleman” Flemmi, a longtime partner of Bulger’s who also knew Salemme, testified that Salemme became concerned DiSarro was speaking to authorities and might implicate him in criminal activities.	distant_evaluation
Flemmi, who is serving a life sentence for 10 murders, said he witnessed DiSarro’s strangling on May 10, 1993, when he went to Salemme’s home to talk to Salemme.	distant_evaluation
Flemmi said he saw Salemme’s now-deceased son, Frank Jr., strangling DiSarro as Weadick held his legs and the elder Salemme watched.	distant_evaluation
Flemmi, 84, said he quickly left, but added Salemme later told him DiSarro was killed and that his body was buried in Rhode Island.	distant_evaluation
Michael DiSarro (L to R), Pamela DiSarro, Nick DiSarro and Colby DiSarro speak to reporters outside the federal courthouse following the sentencing of Francis Salemme in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., September 13, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Nate Raymond	error
Francis “Cadillac Frank” Salemme, 85, looked through paperwork as three of club owner Steven DiSarro’s children spoke in Boston federal court about how they suffered for over two decades not knowing what happened to their father.	cause_general
Salemme, who was sentenced alongside associate Paul Weadick, 63, to a mandatory life prison term by U.S. District Judge Allison Burroughs, was only charged after DiSarro’s remains were found in 2016 buried behind a mill in Providence, Rhode Island.	cause_specific
Nick DiSarro, one of DiSarro’s sons, described the pain he felt as sat through each day of Salemme’s trial listening to testimony about his father’s brutal murder.	cause_general
“As hard as it was to hear the pure evil day in and day out, I got the answers necessary,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Michael DiSarro, another of the late DiSarro’s children, told Salemme: “You’re a coward and a murderer, and I am happy to see you will be spending what days you have left in a cell.”	distant_evaluation
Salemme, who is expected to appeal his June conviction, said in court that DiSarro’s family had a “right to feel like that, but they don’t know what’s going on, they don’t know the truth.”	distant_expectations_consequences
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hundreds of Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters on Saturday rallied against the government’s attempt to ban a political party, saying it dealt the most serious threat to the city’s freedom of association since its return to Chinese rule.	main
“The group has not taken any action or caused any violence.	distant_anecdotal
All it did was speaking.”	distant_anecdotal
Most of the protesters were not supporters of independence for Hong Kong.	cause_general
But trailing at the end of the march about 50 people, many wearing face masks, waved “Hong Kong independence” flags and shouted: “We are Hong Kongers, not Chinese.”	cause_general
Piercing through the chants was the shrill of about 100 black whistles - a local metaphor for injustice.	cause_general
Hong Kong has a separate political and legal system from China under a “One Country, Two Systems” principle, which promises the city a high degree of autonomy and a wide range of freedoms, including freedom of speech and freedom of association.	cause_general
But after a months-long “Umbrella Movement” street occupation in 2014 failed to pressure Beijing to allow full democracy in Hong Kong, calls for independence emerged.	distant_historical
Chinese President Xi Jinping has said any attempt to challenge China’s national sovereignty crosses a red line.	distant_evaluation
Benny Tai, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong and an initiator of the “Umbrella Movement” said the proposed ban on the Hong Kong National Party was part of a wider trend of using existing laws to restrict political freedoms.	distant_evaluation
“After the Umbrella Movement, the Communist Party has started to adjust its strategy towards Hong Kong,” said Tai, who joined Saturday’s protests.	distant_evaluation
Pro-independence protesters supporting freedom of expression take part in a demonstration outside the Police Headquarters in Hong Kong, China July 21, 2018.	error
“Part of it is to use the law to suppress.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Venus Wu	error
Organizers said 1,200 protested, while the police estimated 600 attended at the peak.	distant_evaluation
The city’s security chief said on Tuesday the police had advised him to ban the Hong Kong National Party, which openly promotes the city’s secession from China.	distant_expectations_consequences
The chief, John Lee, has not officially banned the group yet, saying he could not do so before it has a chance to explain itself.	distant_evaluation
He said Hong Kong still has freedom of association, as enshrined in its mini-constitution known as the Basic Law, but “that right is not without restriction.”	distant_evaluation
But the developments mark the first time since Hong Kong’s handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997 that the government has moved to outlaw a political organization.	cause_specific
“Hong Kong is starting to prosecute people for their speech,” said protester Isabella Yeung, a teacher in her 40s.	distant_anecdotal
AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - The Dallas Police Department on Monday fired a police officer who is facing a manslaughter charge after fatally shooting a man in his apartment that the officer said she mistook for her own home.	main
“The swift termination of any officer who engages in misconduct that leads to the loss of innocent life is essential if the Dallas Police Department is to gain and maintain the public trust,” he said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
A funeral for Jean was planned for Monday in his native Saint Lucia, Dallas media reported.	cause_general
S. Lee Merritt, an attorney for the Jean family, said the police chief informed the family of the department’s decision on Sunday night and they supported the move.	distant_evaluation
“The Jean family said that this was an initial victory but are still focused on the proper indictment by the grand jury of murder, a successful prosecution and an appropriate sentence,” he said in an interview.	distant_expectations_consequences
The family is also considering suing the department and the city, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Officer Amber Guyger appears in a booking photo provided by the Kaufman County Sheriff's Office, September 10, 2018.	error
Kaufman County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo	error
The case is before a grand jury.	cause_general
District Attorney Faith Johnson said the panel may decide to uphold the manslaughter charge on which Guyger was arrested, or it could consider a more serious charge of murder.	distant_expectations_consequences
Police said Guyger has told investigators she mistook Jean’s residence for her own and shot him, believing he was an intruder.	distant_evaluation
Officer Amber Guyger had been dismissed after nearly five years on the job for her actions on the night of the shooting earlier in September, Dallas Police Chief U. Renee Hall said in a statement.	main
Guyger said she had mistakenly gone to Jean’s apartment one floor above her own and managed to enter because the door was slightly ajar, according to an arrest warrant affidavit.	distant_evaluation
Hall also said Guyger had engaged in “adverse conduct” when she was arrested for manslaughter, without elaborating.	cause_general
Guyger, 30, had been on administrative leave since she fatally shot Botham Jean, 26.	cause_general
The killing of an unarmed black man by a white officer sparked protests in the Texas city, with many calling for the officer to be fired and charged with murder.	cause_general
The decision to fire Guyger came after an internal review.	cause_specific
Guyger can appeal the decision, police said.	distant_expectations_consequences
An attorney for the officer was not immediately available for comment.	cause_general
Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said he heard the calls to take action and supported the decision.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - The arrest of a man who U.S. authorities have said is an illegal immigrant on charges of murdering an Iowa college student has thrust the case into the debate on immigration policy, with President Donald Trump blaming Mollie Tibbetts’ death on weak laws.	main
Iowa Republican Governor Kim Reynolds echoed Trump’s approach, blaming Tibbetts’ death on the nation’s immigration laws.	distant_evaluation
“We are angry that a broken immigration system allowed a predator like this to live in our community, and we will do all we can bring justice to Mollie’s killer,” she said in a Tuesday statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Cristhian Rivera, 24, accused of killing University of Iowa student Mollie Tibbetts, is led from the courtroom after making his initial appearance on a charge of first-degree murder during at the Poweshiek County Courthouse in Montezuma, Iowa, U.S., August 22, 2018.	error
Jim Slosiarek/The Gazette/Pool via REUTERS	error
But Republican members of Congress and congressional candidates in closely competitive Iowa districts were more guarded, perhaps wary of voter backlash if they politicized the case.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republican lawmakers Rod Blum and David Young each issued statements expressing sympathy for the Tibbetts’ family but avoided any mention of illegal immigration.	distant_evaluation
Christopher Peters, a Republican mounting a long-shot challenge to Iowa Democratic Congressman Dave Loebsack, said on Facebook that politicizing Tibbetts’ murder “cheapens the death of this young woman.”	distant_evaluation
“Yes, our immigration system is broken, and Congress has failed to fix it,” Peters wrote.	distant_evaluation
“There is much we can and must do.	distant_evaluation
For now, though, we should mourn the loss of Mollie.”	distant_evaluation
Christhian Rivera, 24, was arrested and charged on Monday with the murder of 20-year-old Tibbetts, who disappeared in July while out jogging.	cause_specific
Tibbetts’ father, who made many public pleas for information about his daughter’s whereabouts, could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.	cause_general
A man who picked up the phone at the home of Tibbetts’ mother in Iowa declined to comment.	cause_general
During his 2016 campaign, Trump spoke almost daily about the 2015 death of Kate Steinle, who was struck by a bullet that ricocheted off the ground after being accidentally fired by an illegal immigrant.	distant_historical
A jury last year cleared the immigrant of murder and manslaughter charges, and Trump railed against the decision.	distant_historical
Iowa voters might recoil at Tibbetts’ death being politicized so quickly, said Timothy Hagle, a political science professor at the University of Iowa.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Kate Steinle was used nationally by Republicans as an example of a system that needs fixing,” Hagle said.	distant_evaluation
“That might happen again, but I’m not sure it will be handled the same way in Iowa.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Mollie Tibbetts of Brooklyn, Iowa, a college student who went missing, poses for an undated photograph obtained by Reuters August 22, 2018.	error
Social Media via REUTERS.	error
Several residents of Brooklyn, Iowa, where Tibbetts lived, expressed sadness at how quickly her death had become a political talking point.	distant_anecdotal
A woman’s body has been found but has not yet been positively identified, authorities have said.	cause_general
“I wish Trump had not made this political,” said Janice, a 60-year-old waitress at the Classic Deli, who declined to give her last name.	distant_anecdotal
“The family just wants to heal.	distant_anecdotal
I have a farm with Mexican immigrants, and I never felt afraid.”	distant_anecdotal
Law enforcement officials told reporters on Monday that Rivera was Mexican and in the country illegally.	distant_evaluation
However, his defense lawyer said in a court filing on Wednesday that Rivera had legal status.	distant_evaluation
Trump, who has taken a tough stance on immigration and referred to some Mexican migrants as criminals and rapists in his 2016 election campaign, made a reference to the Tibbetts case at a rally in West Virginia on Tuesday.	main
“Should never have happened,” said Trump.	main
“The immigration laws are such a disgrace.”	main
The political fallout from the killing could reverberate across Iowa, a swing state that has a hotly contested gubernatorial race and where Democrats see a chance at taking two of the 23 seats they need to win back from Republicans in November’s midterms to gain a majority in the House of Representatives.	distant_expectations_consequences
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Two women charged with murdering the estranged half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un must answer for their role in a well-planned conspiracy, a Malaysian judge said on Thursday, but added that the evidence did not prove a political assassination.	main
However, Azmi said he was not persuaded by the defense argument, since there was no hidden crew and no attempt to bring the target in on the joke, as is usual in such shows.	distant_evaluation
Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, who is on trial for the killing of Kim Jong Nam, the estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader, is escorted as she leaves the Shah Alam High Court on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, August 16, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Lai Seng Sin	error
Huong did not react to the ruling, but Siti Aisyah burst into tears and had to be comforted by her lawyers and officials of the Indonesian embassy.	cause_general
She was very disappointed, said her lawyer, Gooi Soon Seng, who expressed surprise at the decision.	distant_evaluation
“We are still very confident that we have a good defense,” he added.	distant_evaluation
“It does not mean they are found guilty, it just means that he (the judge) found that the prosecution have proven there is a prima facie case.”	distant_evaluation
Huong’s lawyers also said they did not expect the ruling.	distant_evaluation
In Vietnam, responding to Thursday’s events, her father, Doan Van Thanh, said, “I don’t know what to do next.	distant_evaluation
I just hope they will announce her innocent so that she can return home.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Indonesian Siti Aisyah and Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese, face the death penalty on charges of murdering Kim Jong Nam by smearing his face with VX, a nerve agent banned by the United Nations, at a Kuala Lumpur airport on Feb. 13 last year.	cause_specific
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED	distant_evaluation
Defense lawyers say the killing was politically motivated, with many key suspects linked to the North Korean embassy in the Malaysian capital, suggesting the women were simply pawns.	distant_evaluation
But the judge said the women’s conduct before and after the attack supported a case against them, citing CCTV recordings of their meeting with other North Korean suspects and going to a airport bathroom to wash their hands immediately after the VX attack.	distant_evaluation
Kim Jong Nam, who was living in exile in Macau, had criticized his family’s dynastic rule of North Korea and his brother had ordered his execution, South Korean lawmakers have said.	distant_evaluation
Pyongyang has denied accusations by South Korean and U.S. officials that Kim Jong Un’s regime was behind the killing.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (5 Images)	error
In June, Malaysia said it planned to reopen its embassy in Pyongyang, suggesting an end to the rift in once-close diplomatic ties that followed the killing.	distant_expectations_consequences
The prosecution wrapped up its case in June, based on testimony from 34 witnesses, including experts who said traces of VX were found on the clothing of both women.	cause_general
Video recordings played in court showed them meeting two of the fugitives at the airport before the attack.	cause_general
The murder was a “well-planned conspiracy between the women and the four North Koreans at large”, trial judge Azmi Ariffin said in a ruling that took more than two hours to read.	main
“I must therefore call upon them to enter their defense.”	main
He added, “I cannot rule out that this could be a political assassination.	main
Despite that, I am unable to confirm this fact.”	main
The court has set dates for the women to take the stand between November and next February.	distant_expectations_consequences
Both women arrived at the high court on the outskirts of the Malaysian capital handcuffed and wearing bulletproof vests, to be escorted into the courtroom by gun-wielding policemen.	cause_general
They are in their 20s and both have pleaded not guilty, saying they thought they were involved in a prank for a reality TV show.	cause_general
MUNICH (Reuters) - A member of a German neo-Nazi gang was jailed for life on Wednesday for her part in the murders of 10 people during a seven-year campaign of racially-motivated violence.	main
Those men killed themselves in 2011 when police discovered the gang by chance.	distant_historical
Prosecutors said she had played a key role behind the scenes, planning the crimes and arranging money and alibis.	cause_specific
Defendant Beate Zschaepe waits in a Munich courtroom before judges give their verdict in the trial of suspected NSU neo-Nazi gang member Zschaepe in Munich, Germany July 11, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Michaela Rehle	error
APPEAL	distant_expectations_consequences
“This is a just punishment for the NSU’s cold-blooded and unprecedented series of crimes,” Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Five of the 10 murders took place in Bavaria, the most violent attacks of their kind in Germany since the far-left Red Army Faction’s two-decade killing spree that ended in 1991 and left at least 34 dead.	distant_historical
“What the perpetrators did cannot be made up for.	distant_evaluation
The victims will never be forgotten,” said German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas.	distant_evaluation
He said Germany needed to tackle racist violence with diversity and the strength of law.	distant_evaluation
Beate Zschaepe, 43, showed no reaction as the judge read out her sentence at the end of one of the most closely watched court cases in Germany’s post-war history.	cause_general
Zschaepe was also found guilty of membership of a terrorist organization, of being co-perpetrator in two bombings, and of arson.	cause_general
Four men were also found guilty of supporting the NSU in various ways, including procuring weapons, and handed sentences from 2-1/2 to 10 years.	cause_general
A group of people in the court applauded when one of the men received a lower sentence than expected.	cause_general
Zschaepe’s lawyer, Mathias Grasel, said he would appeal against Wednesday’s ruling.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The verdict is wrong!” Grasel said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“Conviction for complicity is legally untenable.	distant_evaluation
The fact is: Ms. Zschaepe was demonstrably present at no crime scene and never fired a weapon or detonated a bomb.”	distant_evaluation
Turkey’s foreign ministry said the trial had not uncovered the full story of the murder of its citizens and the other victims.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (11 Images)	error
“Unfortunately, the ruling made today has not brought to light the real criminals, the background of the NSU murders and the connection between the deep state and intelligence to its full extent,” it said, without going into further detail.	distant_evaluation
She was part of the National Socialist Underground (NSU), whose members killed eight Turks, a Greek man and a German policewoman from 2000 to 2007, the Higher Regional Court in Munich ruled.	cause_general
Relations between Germany and Turkey deteriorated sharply after Ankara’s crackdown on suspected supporters of a failed military coup in 2016, but have begun to improve lately.	distant_evaluation
The murders shook a country that believed it had learned the lessons of its past.	distant_evaluation
"A report later said police had ""massively underestimated"" the risk of far-right violence and that missteps had allowed the cell to go undetected."	distant_evaluation
(reut.rs/2m7Xwkw)	error
The judges said Zschaepe bore “particularly heavy guilt” and handed her the heaviest possible sentence.	cause_specific
She had denied any knowledge of the murders during the five-year trial.	cause_general
But she said later she regretted not stopping two male members of the gang, Uwe Boehnhardt and Uwe Mundlos, from carrying out the killings.	distant_evaluation
LONDON (Reuters) - London police investigated more murders than their New York counterparts did over the last two months, statistics show, as the British capital’s mayor vowed to fight a “violent scourge” on the streets.	main
But British politicians and police are increasingly expressing concern about London’s rising murder rate, which is driven by a surge in knife crime.	distant_evaluation
Of the 47 murders in London so far this year, 31 have been committed with knives.	cause_general
Britain’s interior ministry said it was consulting on new laws to further restrict dangerous weapons, including banning online stores from delivering knives to residential addresses and making it an offence to possess certain weapons in public.	distant_expectations_consequences
“This government is taking action to restrict access to offensive weapons as well as working to break the deadly cycle of violence and protect our children, families and communities,” a Home Office spokesman said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Khan, who has been in office since May 2016, is from the opposition Labour Party.	cause_general
Before him, Conservative Boris Johnson was mayor for eight years.	distant_historical
The national government has been run by the Conservatives since 2010, with Prime Minister Theresa May previously serving as interior minister from 2010 to 2016.	distant_historical
Britain’s most senior officer, London police chief Cressida Dick, said gangs were using online platforms to glamorize violence, adding that disputes between young people could escalate within minutes on social media.	distant_evaluation
The Ben Kinsella Trust, an anti-knife crime charity named after a young victim, said social media amplified a range of other factors that have contributed to the crisis.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (7 Images)	error
There were 15 murders in London in February against 14 in New York, according to London’s Metropolitan Police Service and the New York Police Department.	cause_specific
The charity’s CEO Patrick Green said there had been extra funding to tackle knife crime, which he welcomed, but added that the government needed to act with more urgency and that budget cuts affecting youth services had played a part.	distant_evaluation
“This has been a horrendous year.	distant_evaluation
It’s looking like it’ll be worse that last year, which was worse than the year before,” he told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The response so far has been too slow...	distant_evaluation
It feels like we’re in a crisis and we need to respond in that way.”	distant_evaluation
For March, 22 murders were investigated in London, with 21 reports in New York.	cause_specific
In the latest bloodshed, a 17-year-old girl died on Monday after she was found with gunshot wounds in Tottenham, north London, a day after a man was fatally stabbed in south London.	cause_general
“The Mayor is deeply concerned by violent crime in the capital - every life lost to violent crime is a tragedy,” a spokeswoman for Mayor Sadiq Khan said in a statement on Tuesday.	distant_evaluation
“Our city remains one of the safest in the world ... but Sadiq wants it to be even safer and is working hard to bring an end to this violent scourge.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Including January’s figures, New York had still experienced more murders so far this year than London.	cause_general
The cities have a similar-sized population.	cause_general
Gun violence is much less of a problem in Britain, which has strict gun control laws, than in the United States, and most British police are not equipped with firearms.	distant_evaluation
AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Texas on Wednesday executed a man dubbed the “ice pick killer” for the weapon he used to murder a woman in 1979, after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected a last-minute appeal from his lawyers, who argued his veins were too compromised for a lethal injection.	main
The crime went unsolved for nearly 20 years, until Bible confessed to the murder and other sexual assaults that included raping an 11-year-old girl in Montana.	distant_historical
He had gone on a rape and murder spree that included the 1983 killing of his sister-in-law, her infant son and her roommate, court records show.	distant_historical
After a plea deal for a 25-year sentence in those killings, Bible served eight years and was paroled.	distant_historical
After his early release under a program that Texas has since abandoned, he raped a woman in Louisiana and was apprehended in Florida.	distant_historical
Soon afterward, he admitted to the ice pick murder.	distant_historical
“Bible has killed at least four people, including an infant,” Texas said in a court filing.	cause_general
“Unlike many offenders, he remained violent as he aged, committing his most recent rape in his late forties.”	cause_general
Bible’s lawyers said there was undeniable evidence his recent medical deterioration has rendered his veins inaccessible or incapable of sustaining a lethal injection.	distant_expectations_consequences
Over the years, Bible contracted coronary disease, diabetes and hypertension, they said.	distant_evaluation
Two executions of inmates with compromised veins have been botched recently, one in Ohio and another in Alabama.	cause_general
Deathrow inmate and convicted murderer and rapist Danny Bible, 66, is shown in this March 26, 2010 photo provided June 26, 2018.	error
Their lawyers warned courts the men were too frail and their veins were not suitable.	distant_expectations_consequences
In both cases, the states were unable to place intravenous lines and called off their executions while the inmates were on death chamber gurneys.	cause_general
Texas Department of Criminal Justice/Handout via REUTERS	error
Danny Bible, 66, was put to death at the state’s death chamber in Huntsville.	cause_general
His execution was the 12th this year in the United States and the seventh in Texas, which has executed more inmates than any state since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976.	cause_general
Bible made no last statement, a prisons official said.	cause_general
His execution occurred in a typical time frame for a lethal injection procedure.	cause_general
Bible was convicted of the rape and murder of Inez Deaton, 20, who went to his home to use his phone and was stabbed 11 times with an ice pick.	cause_specific
Her body was dumped near a Houston bayou.	distant_historical
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Gunmen shot and killed a mayor running for re-election in Mexico on Thursday, the second murder of a politician in a week after a candidate running for federal office was shot in the back of the head while taking a selfie with a supporter.	main
The shocking scene was captured on a CCTV camera.	cause_general
According to Mexico City-based security consultancy Etellekt, at least 113 candidates and politicians have been killed since September.	cause_general
Many of the slain candidates were running for local office.	cause_general
“The risk going forward is that there will be reluctance to participate in local politics because it has become so dangerous,” said Michael Lettieri, a historian at the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California, San Diego.	distant_expectations_consequences
At least 113 politicians have been killed in the bloodiest election campaign in Mexico’s modern history, and the violence appears to be intensifying in the final weeks before the July 1 nationwide election.	cause_general
Political assassinations have rocked the electoral season leading up to July 1, when voters will decide over 3,000 down-ballot seats and elect a new president.	cause_general
Widespread disenchantment with the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) over record levels of violence, political corruption and sluggish economic growth has helped propel leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador to lead voter preferences for the presidency.	distant_evaluation
The mayoral candidate, Alejandro Chavez Zavala, of the right-left coalition led by the National Action Party (PAN), died in a hospital on Thursday while being treated for wounds, Michoacan Governor Silvano Aureoles said in a tweet.	cause_general
Aureoles demanded justice for the small-town mayor’s murder and said that authorities would investigate the attack, in which Chavez’s wife was also injured.	distant_expectations_consequences
The announcement of Chavez’s death follows the disappearance of Ismael Aguirre Rodriguez, a mayoral candidate in Nadadores, a hamlet in northern Coahuila state.	cause_general
Aguirre went missing in broad daylight on Tuesday after he stepped out to buy drinks, according to local media.	cause_general
Fernando Puron, a federal candidate for the PRI, was slain Friday in Coahuila state after a bearded gunman opened fire on him as he greeted supporters following a political debate in Piedras Negras, a border city in northern Mexico.	main
BLANTYRE, Malawi (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The latest murder of a man with albinism in Malawi - the 22nd in four years - has sparked calls for their killers to be executed to deter a wave of attacks in the poor southern African nation.	main
The United Nations’ top expert on albinism has said people with the condition risk “extinction” in Malawi due to relentless attacks fueled by superstitions.	distant_expectations_consequences
President Peter Mutharika has since said Malawi should have an “honest debate” about whether to apply the death sentence to those found guilty of murdering people with albinism.	cause_general
Malawi suspended capital punishment more than 20 years ago as it embraced democratic reforms.	distant_historical
Although the death penalty still exists in law, it has been declared unconstitutional.	cause_general
MURDERS	cause_general
But rights groups said the focus on the death penalty was misplaced and the government should step up its efforts to investigate unsolved murders and protect people with albinism.	distant_evaluation
“We never have any experience where the death penalty has been successful as a deterrent,” said Overstone Kondowe, head of the Association of People with Albinism in Malawi (APAM), which helps about 3,400 people with the condition.	distant_evaluation
It has recorded 146 attacks in Malawi since 2014.	cause_general
About one in 20,000 people worldwide have the congenital disorder, with higher rates in sub-Saharan Africa.	cause_general
Only five of 22 murders reported since 2014 are in court, said Kondowe, with 17 unsolved.	cause_general
The dismembered corpse of 22-year-old McDonald Masambuka was found buried in southern Malawi several weeks after he went missing in March.	cause_specific
“We don’t have even have a suspect and nobody has been prosecuted,” he said of the 17 cases, adding that the police should reopen them now that they have better equipment.	distant_evaluation
“We didn’t have facilities of DNA testing to help with the investigation, so we’re seeking that because the current capacity can help to shed light on who was responsible.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Rights groups called on the government to establish a commission of inquiry to find out who is behind the attacks, amid claims that they are organized by criminal gangs.	distant_expectations_consequences
“There is a green light with the recent case where we have seen high profile people involved,” said Timothy Mtambo, who heads the Centre for Human Rights and Rehabilitation, a charity.	distant_evaluation
“We believe a good investigation can open up our windows as to who is behind the trade ... We would be able to say we have unveiled the market and done (away) with the roots.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Mtambo also echoed a United Nations’ call on the government to implement its own plan to strengthen protection measures, including buying sturdy locks for poor families at risk of attack, and for public education to eradicate superstitions.	distant_evaluation
“It should invest in preventative measures, not ‘curing’ the problem,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“It needs to understand where we have people with albinism, which can help in drawing security plans.	distant_expectations_consequences
Currently there is no proper program.”	distant_evaluation
Several body parts were missing.	cause_specific
A Catholic priest, police officer and medical officer are among 11 people facing charges of conspiracy and murder, police spokesman James Kadadzera told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	cause_general
Information minister Nicholas Dausi said international rights groups and donors were preventing the government from using the death penalty to deter such crimes in Malawi, where people with albinism are hunted down for their body parts.	distant_evaluation
“They are stopping us from enforcing capital punishment,” Dausi was quoted by local media as saying at Masambuka’s funeral last month.	distant_evaluation
“Yet in their countries they execute murderers.	distant_evaluation
Is this fair?”	distant_evaluation
Malawi is one of the most dangerous countries in the world for people with albinism - a lack of pigmentation in the skin, hair and eyes - who are targeted so that their body parts can be used in magical potions and other ritual practices.	cause_general
PARIS (Reuters) - Two men arrested over the murder of a Holocaust-era survivor who was repeatedly stabbed in her Paris home are suspected of killing her because she was Jewish, a judicial source said on Tuesday.	main
According to the judicial source, the arrested men were notified by a judge that they are suspected of murder motivated by the victim’s “real or supposed adherence to a religion”, as well as aggravated theft and damage to property.	cause_general
President Emmanuel Macron described the death as a horrific crime.	distant_evaluation
“I reaffirm my total determination in fighting anti-Semitism,” he wrote on Twitter late on Monday.	distant_evaluation
Interior Minister Gerard Collomb said the murder underscored how far France still had to go to combat anti-Semitism.	distant_evaluation
“Since the start of the year, no fewer than 33 anti-Semitic acts have been committed,” he told the Senate.	distant_evaluation
“This cancer cannot be allowed to eat away at our nation.”	distant_evaluation
Mireille Knoll had lived in the neighborhood - in the building where she died and another on the same street - for 60 years, said Francis Kalifat, head of Crif, a body that represents France’s 400,000-strong Jewish community.	cause_general
Knoll - who narrowly escaped being rounded up with around 13,000 Jews who were held at a cycling track in Paris in July 1942 before being deported to Auschwitz - had known the suspect since he was seven years old, he added.	cause_general
One source close to the investigation told Reuters the two arrested men had given conflicting accounts to police.	distant_anecdotal
One told interrogators he heard the other shout the words “God is greatest” in Arabic during the attack.	distant_anecdotal
Red tape police seals and a photograph are seen on the front door of the appartment of Mireille Knoll in Paris, France, March 27, 2018.	error
The second suspect is a homeless man, according to Gilles-William Goldnadel, the victim’s lawyer.	cause_general
Daniel Knoll said his mother suffered from Parkinson’s disease and was not aware that her neighbor had spent time in jail for molesting the 12-year-old daughter of a woman who acted as her live-in carer.	distant_evaluation
France’s Jewish community, the largest in Europe, has complained for years of a rise in anti-Semitic hate crimes.	cause_general
In 2015, vandals desecrated 250 tombstones in a Jewish cemetery in eastern France only days after four Jews were killed in an attack on a kosher grocery in Paris.	distant_historical
Knoll’s killing took place a year to the day after the murder of Sarah Halimi-Attal, a 65-year-old whose killing prosecutors believe was anti-Semitic.	distant_historical
France’s chief rabbi on Monday described Knoll’s death as a “horror” and Jewish leaders called for a march in her memory, which is set to take place on Wednesday evening.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mireille Knoll, 85, was found dead on Friday at her apartment in Paris's central 11th district.	error
She had been stabbed multiple times and her flat set alight.	error
REUTERS/Clotaire Achi	error
Mireille Knoll, 85, was found dead with 11 stab wounds at her apartment in a working class area of the capital on Friday.	cause_specific
The apartment was set on fire after the attack.	cause_specific
One of the suspects was a long-time neighbor who recently finished a jail sentence for a sex offense, the victim’s son Daniel Knoll told i24 News, an Israeli channel.	cause_general
He said the neighbor had spent much of Friday, when the Jewish day of rest begins at sundown, chatting with his mother at the apartment, with the two sharing a drink.	cause_specific
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Danish inventor Peter Madsen was sentenced to life in prison on Wednesday for murdering, sexually mutilating and dismembering a Swedish female journalist with premeditation aboard his home-made submarine in Copenhagen harbor in 2017.	main
Wall was a freelance journalist whose work had appeared in Harper’s Magazine, Time, the New York Times, the Atlantic Magazine, the Guardian, Foreign Policy and the South China Morning Post.	distant_historical
A courtroom sketch shows Peter Madsen during the trial regarding the killing of Swedish journalist Kim Wall, in Copenhagen, Denmark on April 25, 2018.	error
Ritzau Scanpix/Anne Gyrite Schutt/via REUTERS	error
She held degrees from New York’s Columbia University and the London School of Economics and had written about topics ranging from gender and social justice to pop culture and foreign policy, according to her LinkedIn profile.	distant_historical
“HE BROUGHT COFFEE AND COOKIES”	distant_historical
Wall had been writing an article for the U.S. magazine Wired on Madsen’s race against another Danish group to be the first to send a person into space in a home-made rocket, her boyfriend told the court during the trial.	distant_historical
Wall had split her time between New York and Beijing, and was planning to move to China with her boyfriend less than a week after the fatal trip.	distant_historical
Poignantly, she sent him unsuspecting text messages on the evening she was meeting Madsen, reading: “I’m still alive btw”, “But going down now”, “I love you!!	distant_historical
!”, “He brought coffee and cookies too”.	distant_historical
Wall’s closest relatives were not present in court; her mother had previously said: “She gave a voice to the weak, the vulnerable and marginalized people.	distant_evaluation
Madsen, dressed entirely in black, sat motionless as the Copenhagen City Court handed down its verdict in a grisly case straight from the pages of a dark Scandinavian psycho-thriller.	cause_general
That voice would have been needed for a long, long time.	distant_evaluation
Now, that won’t be.”	distant_evaluation
Madsen, 47, admitted to dismembering the body and throwing it off his 17-metre (56-ft) submarine, but denied murder.	cause_general
But the court found that he had dismembered the body to conceal the evidence of the killing.	cause_general
He was also found to have committed “sexual assault without intercourse” in relation to the 14 interior and exterior stab wounds found on Wall’s genitals.	distant_historical
Forensic tests did not support Madsen’s claim that Wall had suffocated, and the judge said the explanation was not credible and “not consistent with the subsequent decision to dismember the body”.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (7 Images)	error
A life sentence in Denmark is typically around 15 years without parole.	cause_general
The longest-serving convict in modern Danish history is set to begin his 34th year behind bars this year after the murder of two young adults in 1985.	cause_general
Madsen will appeal against the sentence, his lawyer told the court.	distant_expectations_consequences
Already well known in Denmark for his submarines and his plan to send a human into space in a home-made rocket, Madsen was detained last August when he emerged from his submarine without Wall, a 30-year-old who was researching a piece on him.	distant_historical
A memorial fund set up in Kim Wall’s name by her parents, brother and friends has received donations from over a thousand individuals.	cause_general
Later that month, police identified a torso washed ashore in Copenhagen as Wall’s.	distant_historical
Her arms, legs and head were found later.	distant_historical
Madsen changed his version of events several times, finally arguing that Wall had been suffocated by an accidental gas leak.	cause_general
But forensic tests found that she had either been strangled or had her throat cut - and that around the time of her death, Madsen had stabbed her in her breasts and genitals with a knife or screwdriver.	distant_historical
Judge Anette Burkoe said the panel of judges had been unanimous in finding him guilty of a murder that had been planned.	cause_specific
During the trial, a police prosecutor said images of women being strangled and decapitated, “which we presumed to be real”, had been found on Madsen’s computer in a laboratory he ran.	distant_evaluation
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain charged two Russians in absentia on Wednesday with the attempted murder of a former Russian spy and his daughter, and said the suspects were military intelligence officers almost certainly acting on orders from high up in the Russian state.	main
Police released security camera images of the two suspects and outlined a three-day mission that took them from Moscow to London to Salisbury, where they sprayed poison on Skripal’s door before flying back to Moscow hours later.	cause_specific
The Russian charge d’affaires in London was summoned to the Foreign Office to be told Britain wanted those responsible to be brought to justice.	cause_general
However Moscow, which has repeatedly denied any involvement in the attack, said the names meant nothing.	distant_evaluation
“We have heard or seen two names, these names mean nothing to me personally,” Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters in Moscow.	distant_evaluation
“I don’t understand why this was done and what sort of signal the British side is sending.”	distant_evaluation
Britain and dozens of other countries have kicked out scores of Russian diplomats over the incident, and Moscow has responded tit-for-tat with an identical number of expulsions.	cause_general
The affair has worsened Russian relations with the West, already under strain over Ukraine, Syria and other issues.	distant_evaluation
May’s spokesman said May had briefed U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday evening.	cause_general
U.S.	distant_evaluation
Ambassador to Britain Woody Johnson said on Twitter the United States stood with Britain in holding Russia accountable for its “act of aggression”.	distant_evaluation
British police revealed images of the two men they said had flown to Britain for a weekend in March to kill former spy Sergei Skripal with Novichok, a military-grade nerve agent.	cause_specific
Britain will update the U.N. Security Council at a meeting on Thursday.	cause_general
Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov, who were formally accused of attempting to murder former Russian intelligence officer Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury, are seen in an image handed out by the Metropolitan Police in London, Britain September 5, 2018.	error
Metroplitan Police handout via REUTERS	error
“REMARKABLY SOPHISTICATED”	distant_evaluation
The “remarkably sophisticated” attack appeared to be a clear assassination attempt, said Neil Basu, head of UK counter terrorism policing.	distant_evaluation
He described an investigation which involved 250 detectives and analysis of some 11,000 hours of video.	cause_specific
According to police, the suspects, both around 40 years old, flew to London from Moscow on March 2.	cause_specific
They spent two nights in an east London hotel, making two day trips to Salisbury, the first for reconnaissance, the second to kill Skripal.	cause_specific
They flew out on March 4, hours after the Skripals were found unconscious.	cause_specific
Security cameras filmed the suspects near Skripal’s house, and traces of Novichok were found in their London hotel room.	cause_specific
Skripal’s daughter Yulia and a police officer who attended the scene also fell ill in the case, which has caused the biggest East-West diplomatic expulsions since the Cold War.	cause_general
The Russians were charged with conspiracy to murder Sergei Skripal and with the attempted murder of Skripal, his daughter and police officer Nick Bailey.	main
They are also charged with illegal use and possession of a chemical weapon.	main
A European arrest warrant has been issued for them, but prosecutors said Britain would not ask Moscow to extradite Russian citizens because Russia’s constitution forbids it.	distant_evaluation
Basu said the Skripals were making a good recovery.	distant_evaluation
A woman near Salisbury, Dawn Sturgess, died in July and her partner Charlie Rowley fell ill after Rowley found a counterfeit bottle of Nina Ricci perfume in a charity collection box and brought it home.	cause_general
It contained Novichok.	cause_general
Basu said police had no doubt the events were linked, and were discussing charges over the Sturgess and Rowley case with prosecutors.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (14 Images)	error
The Skripal case has been likened by British politicians to the murder of Russian dissident ex-spy Alexander Litvinenko, who was poisoned with a rare radioactive isotope in a London hotel in 2006.	distant_historical
Britain charged two Russians with his murder but both remain in Russia, and one later won a seat in parliament.	distant_historical
A woman later died from Novichok poisoning after her partner found a counterfeit perfume bottle which police believe had been used to smuggle the nerve agent into Britain.	cause_general
May said the Litvinenko case showed there was no point to demanding the Skripal suspects’ extradition.	distant_evaluation
“But should either of these individuals ever again travel outside Russia, we will take every possible step to detain them, to extradite them and to bring them to face justice here in the United Kingdom.”	distant_expectations_consequences
British authorities identified the suspects as Russian nationals traveling on genuine passports under the aliases Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov.	cause_general
Prime Minister Theresa May told parliament the government had concluded they were officers in Russia’s military intelligence service, the GRU.	cause_specific
“The GRU is a highly disciplined organization with a well-established chain of command, so this was not a rogue operation,” May said.	distant_evaluation
“It was almost certainly also approved outside the GRU at a senior level of the Russian state.”	distant_evaluation
Skripal, himself a former GRU officer who betrayed dozens of agents to Britain’s MI6 foreign spy service, was found unconscious with Yulia on a public bench in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.	cause_specific
Thai policemen escort Joseph Hunter, a former U.S. Army sergeant nicknamed Rambo, as he arrives at Don Mueang International Airport in Bangkok, Thailand on September 27, 2013.	error
Samia is a self-described “personal protection/security industry” professional trained in tactics and weapons, while Stillwell’s resume says he worked at a North Carolina firm that provides firearms training, according to court filings.	cause_general
Prosecutors said Samia and Stillwell traveled to the Philippines and murdered a woman there in February 2012, and were each paid $35,000 by Hunter.	distant_historical
The woman was shot multiple times in the face and left on a pile of garbage, prosecutors said.	distant_historical
The first charges against Hunter stemmed from a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration sting operation that followed the arrest in Liberia in 2012 of Hunter’s boss, Paul Le Roux, the Zimbabwe-born head of a multinational criminal organization.	distant_historical
Le Roux subsequently agreed to cooperate with authorities.	distant_historical
He admitted to shipping drugs and weapons around the world and to having ordered various murders, and ordered a fake murder-for-hire operation to help authorities catch Hunter, according to court records.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom/Files Photo	error
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A former U.S. Army sergeant and two other U.S. citizens were found guilty by a jury in Manhattan federal court on Wednesday of taking part in a plot to murder a woman in the Philippines for money, prosecutors said.	main
Ex-soldier Joseph Manuel Hunter, Adam Samia and Carl David Stillwell were convicted of charges including murder-for-hire, which carries a mandatory life sentence, according to the office of U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman in Manhattan.	cause_specific
“Obviously, we’re disappointed, but respect the jury’s verdict,” said Robert Ray, a lawyer for Stillwell, adding he planned to appeal.	distant_evaluation
Lawyers for Hunter and Samia could not immediately be reached for comment.	cause_general
Hunter, 52, is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Ronnie Abrams on Sep. 7.	cause_general
He is already serving a 20-year sentence after pleading guilty in 2015 to separate charges of conspiring to kill a federal drug agent and an informant.	cause_general
Samia, 43, and Stillwell, 50, are scheduled to be sentenced by Abrams on Sep. 14.	cause_general
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - California law enforcement officials on Friday offered a $50,000 reward to help crack the 1991 murders of an aspiring crime scene investigator and her family, hoping to capitalize on advances in DNA technology and publicity surrounding another high-profile case.	main
Authorities do not believe there is a link between the Jacobs case and the Golden State Killer murders.	distant_evaluation
Marcy Jacobs, a 31-year-old California Department of Justice staff services employee, was attending night classes to become a crime scene investigator when she was found dead at her home on Jan. 14, 1991, along with her husband Michael, 33, and daughter Jenny, 9.	distant_historical
“Obviously there have been advancements in that (DNA) area, also relationships change over time,” public information officer Vance Chandler of the California Department of Justice said in reference to the Jacobs case, declining to elaborate.	distant_evaluation
Detectives have long believed that the murders were carried out by more than one suspect who came to the home seeking valuables stored in a safe there by a friend of Michael Jacobs.	distant_evaluation
“We call on the public to help bring their killers to justice,” Becerra said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We owe the Jacobs family and all their loved ones nothing less.”	distant_evaluation
In announcing a new push to solve the 27-year-old killings of state employee Marcy Jacobs, her husband and her daughter, California Attorney General Xavier Becerra and Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn said they hoped new witnesses would come forward.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Over the years, this case has been very challenging for multiple investigators.	distant_evaluation
Due to forensic advances, detectives working with the California Department of Justice have again begun actively working this case,” Hahn said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“We are hoping with the passage of time, and the offer of a $50,000 reward, anyone who has information regarding this incident will come forward to help solve this extremely violent crime,” Hahn said.	distant_expectations_consequences
DNA evidence was collected from the crime scene at the Jacobs’ Sacramento home, but police declined to say if investigators were employing techniques similar to those used in the separate “Golden State Killer” case to try to identify a culprit.	distant_evaluation
Former police officer Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, was arrested in April and charged with 12 murders in the 1970s and 1980s attributed to the long-elusive Golden State Killer.	cause_general
DeAngelo was identified as a suspect after detectives compared DNA from several crime scenes to online DNA-genealogy data, finding a partial match in a distant relative.	cause_general
Some experts have raised ethical questions about use by law enforcement of consumer genealogy websites.	distant_evaluation
MINNEAPOLIS (Reuters) - The Minneapolis police officer who fatally shot an unarmed Australian woman last July was arrested on Tuesday on charges of third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, prosecutors said.	main
Mohamed Noor, 32, is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters March 20, 2018.	error
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
Noor has been on paid leave and refused to be interviewed by Minnesota state investigators.	cause_general
Noor’s attorney, Tom Plunkett, said his client should not be charged.	distant_evaluation
“The loss of Justine Ruszczyk Damond is a tragedy and Officer Noor again personally extends his continued condolences to her family for their loss,” Plunkett said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“The facts will show that Officer Noor acted as he has been trained and consistent with established departmental policy,” Plunkett added.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Officer Noor should not have been charged with any crime.”	distant_evaluation
‘INIQUITOUS ACT’	distant_evaluation
Damond’s fiance, Don Damond, and her father, John Ruszczyk, issued a joint statement in which they praised the decision to charge Noor and hoped it resulted in a conviction, calling it “one step toward justice for this iniquitous act.”	distant_evaluation
“No charges can bring our Justine back.	distant_evaluation
Mohamed Noor, 32, turned himself in and was arrested for the death of Justine Damond, 40, who had called 911 about a possible sexual assault near her house, Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman said at a news conference announcing the charges.	cause_general
However, justice demands accountability for those responsible for recklessly killing the fellow citizens they are sworn to protect,” they said in the statement.	distant_evaluation
Damond, who was living in Minneapolis and engaged to be married, approached the police after their arrival, authorities have said.	distant_historical
She had owned a meditation and life-coaching company.	distant_historical
Neither Noor, who came to the United States from Somalia as a child, nor Matthew Harrity, another officer in the patrol car, had their body cameras activated, police have said.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Justine Damond, also known as Justine Ruszczyk, from Sydney, is seen in this 2015 photo released by Stephen Govel Photography in New York, U.S., on July 17, 2017.	error
Courtesy Stephen Govel/Stephen Govel Photography/Handout/File Photo via REUTERS	error
Harrity was startled by a loud sound near the patrol car shortly before Noor fired from the passenger seat of the patrol car through Harrity’s window, Freeman said.	distant_evaluation
Harrity, who pulled out his handgun during the incident but did not fire it, said both officers “got spooked” when Damond appeared “out of nowhere,” Freeman said.	distant_evaluation
Noor is scheduled to make an initial court appearance on Wednesday in Hennepin County District Court in Minneapolis.	cause_general
Prosecutors are asking that Noor’s bail be set at $500,000, Freeman said.	cause_general
“There is no evidence that Officer Noor encountered a threat, appreciated a threat, investigated a threat or confirmed a threat that justified his decision to use deadly force,” Freeman said.	distant_evaluation
“Instead, Officer Noor recklessly and intentionally fired his handgun.”	distant_historical
After Noor shot her, Damond put her hands on the gunshot wound on the left side of her abdomen and said, “I’m dying” or “I’m dead,” Freeman said.	distant_historical
The shooting drew condemnation in Minnesota and Australia, where Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called it “shocking” and “inexplicable.” Then-Minneapolis police chief Jamee Harteau resigned after city officials said procedures had been violated and Damond “didn’t have to die.”	distant_evaluation
The third-degree murder charge accused Noor of committing an “eminently dangerous act” and showing a “depraved mind,” and the second-degree manslaughter charge cited “culpable negligence creating unreasonable risk,” the records showed.	cause_specific
The penalty for third-degree murder is up to 25 years in prison and second-degree manslaughter carries a penalty of up to 10 years, according to a state website.	cause_general
Freeman, Minneapolis’ top prosecutor, had delayed his decision in December, saying his office needed more time and that he lacked sufficient evidence to charge Noor.	distant_historical
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovakia’s national police chief has agreed to step down by the end of May, Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini said on Tuesday, yielding to public pressure for his dismissal in the wake of the murder of a journalist that has rocked the country for weeks.	main
“We agreed that in order to calm the tensions and free the police from media pressure, he will resign by the end of May.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Pellegrini is a member of Fico’s Smer party, which has been losing voter support in recent weeks, although the next election is not due for two years.	distant_evaluation
The new cabinet is made up of the same three parties as the previous administration.	cause_general
Fico still leads the party, giving him a behind-the-scenes position of informal power similar to that which Law and Justice Party chief Jaroslaw Kaczynski holds in Poland.	distant_evaluation
In power for 10 of the last 12 years, Fico has avoided disputes with Brussels over the rule of law unlike neighboring Poland and Hungary.	cause_general
He has positioned Slovakia as a ‘pro-European island’ among euro-sceptics.	cause_general
Protesters say Fico’s cabinets failed to fight sleaze in politics, however, and they fear that the government reshuffle has not gone far enough.	distant_evaluation
While they also sought the departure of the police chief, Pellegrini said Gaspar’s departure would have little effect.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Gaspar’s resignation will not have any impact on the investigation of (Kuciak’s) murder as the police chief has not had any influence on the investigation so far,” Pellegrini said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nobody has been charged in connection with the murder, which the prosecutor overseeing the case said was likely a contract killing.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: People attend a protest rally in reaction to the murder of Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee Martina Kusnirova, in Bratislava, Slovakia April 5, 2018.	error
Kuciak’s last story, published posthumously, investigated links between Italian businessmen in Slovakia, one of whom has since been charged in cases involving drug trafficking in Italy and abuse of EU subsidies in Slovakia, and two Slovaks who later went on to work in Fico’s government office.	cause_general
All have denied any wrongdoing.	distant_evaluation
Some of Kuciak’s reporting also dealt with deals between the government and Slovakia’s biggest privately owned security firm, whose owner is related to Gaspar.	cause_general
The police chief has denied wrongdoing or any conflict of interest.	distant_evaluation
Gaspar’s previous reluctance to quit forced Interior Minister Tomas Drucker to announce his own resignation on Monday, just three weeks after taking the job.	cause_general
Drucker said he did not have grounds to fire Gaspar and could not square such a move with the public pressure for him to go.	distant_evaluation
Pellegrini said he hoped to find “within days” a replacement for Drucker who will in turn pick a caretaker police chief.	distant_expectations_consequences
President Andrej Kiska, a long-time adversary of Fico, said Gaspar’s departure was the least the government could do to ease the situation.	distant_evaluation
“A new minister has to strengthen the guarantees of an independent and impartial investigation of the murder of Jan Kuciak and Martina Kusnirova, as well as numerous (other) unsolved scandals.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa/File Photo	error
Tens of thousands of Slovaks have been protesting since the February murder of Jan Kuciak, who investigated corruption and links between politicians and businessmen, and his fiancee.	cause_specific
The protesters have been demanding guarantees of an independent investigation of the case.	cause_specific
The demonstrations - the biggest in decades in the EU member country - led long-term prime minister Robert Fico to resign along with his cabinet last month.	cause_general
Police President Tibor Gaspar was another top official on the protesters’ list.	cause_specific
“I see the police president as a competent professional ...	distant_evaluation
But I see he was the target of enormous political pressure, even attacks on all the police force,” said new Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini.	distant_evaluation
BAGHDAD, July 20 (Reuters) - Thousands of Iraqis angry about poor services protested in Baghdad and the southern oil hub of Basra on Friday, calling for the downfall of political parties as they escalated demonstrations backed by the country’s most powerful clerics.	main
Protests have swept cities in the south, Iraq’s Shi’ite heartland.	cause_general
Three protesters have died and dozens of members of the security forces have been injured.	cause_general
Some of the protests have taken place at the entrance to major oilfields.	cause_general
Officials say production has not been affected.	cause_general
On Friday, about 300 people vented their anger in one of Baghdad’s main squares.	cause_general
One held up a posters which read: “The revolution of the poor.”	distant_anecdotal
In Basra, crumbling from years of neglect and under-investment, about 3,000 protesters gathered outside the headquarters of the provincial governorate.	main
“The people want the downfall of political parties!” they chanted, echoing a slogan of the 2011 uprisings across the Arab world, as politicians struggled to form a new government following a May 12 election marred by allegations of corruption.	main
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, who is seeking a second term, promised his government would fund electricity and water projects in Basra, where the colour of tap water is often brown because it contains dirt and mud.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The promises they make are all lies,” said Khaled Hassan, 42, a health worker in Basra.	distant_anecdotal
“We will not keep quiet.”	distant_anecdotal
On Thursday, powerful Shi’ite Muslim cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, whose bloc finished first in the election, said politicians should suspend efforts to form a coalition until the protesters’ demands are met.	distant_evaluation
Sadr, whose militiamen staged violent uprisings against U.S. forces after the 2003 invasion, has in the past mobilised tens of thousands of people to press his demands.	distant_historical
Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the most influential cleric in Iraq, has also expressed solidarity with the demonstrators.	distant_evaluation
(This version of the Feb 18 story corrects name from Keith to Kevin in second paragraph)	error
According to the clemency petition, Kent Whitaker, his relatives and his wife’s family do not want Texas to execute Bart.	distant_evaluation
The panel’s decision is due on Tuesday, two days before the execution.	cause_general
If it recommends commuting the death sentence to life in prison, Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican, would make the final decision.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tim Cole, an assistant professor of law at the University of North Texas Dallas College of Law and a former Texas district attorney, said the case points to a major flaw in the U.S. capital punishment system.	distant_evaluation
With no consistent criteria for prosecutors on whether they should seek execution, he said, the system is arbitrary.	distant_evaluation
“It is completely up to that one person, the district attorney, to seek death or not,” he said.	distant_evaluation
The Whitaker case is an outlier, however.	distant_evaluation
In many cases, family members want the district attorney to seek the maximum punishment, Cole said.	distant_evaluation
Since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976, clemency at the request of a forgiving victim’s family has been almost unheard of, according to the non-profit Death Penalty Information Center, which monitors U.S. capital punishment.	distant_evaluation
It did happen in Georgia in 1990, the group said.	distant_historical
By Jon Herskovitz	error
It is far more common for courts to halt executions for reasons ranging from doubts over guilt to procedural problems with prosecutions than it is for a governor to grant clemency.	distant_evaluation
Money may have motivated Bart Whitaker to plan to murder his family with the help of two other men, court documents showed.	distant_evaluation
One of those men, his roommate Chris Brashear, shot the father, mother and brother after the family returned from a dinner out.	distant_historical
He shot Bart in the bicep to make it look he had also been attacked, court documents said.	distant_historical
The two other men helped prosecutors pin the crime on Whitaker and were not sentenced to death.	distant_historical
Local prosecutors said they considered the family’s views but stood by Whitaker’s sentence as appropriate for such a brutal crime.	distant_evaluation
“We represent all of the community.	distant_evaluation
It is not just one person we represent,” said Fred Felcman, first assistant district attorney for the Fort Bend County District Attorney’s Office.	distant_evaluation
“Legally, justice says that he should be executed.”	distant_evaluation
Thomas Whitaker appears in a booking photo by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice in Huntsville, Texas, U.S., obtained by Reuters on February 16, 2018.	error
AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - A Texas man who survived a deadly domestic attack hatched by his son is pushing the state to grant clemency to the condemned man, although it has never spared a death row inmate solely at the formal request of the victim’s family.	main
Texas Department of Criminal Justice/Handout via REUTERS	error
Felcman believes Bart Whitaker is a sociopath and a master manipulator.	distant_evaluation
In the clemency petition, Kent Whitaker recalled lying in his hospital bed and facing the choice of slipping into despair or offering his son forgiveness.	distant_evaluation
He said his faith led him to the latter option, which he hopes will sway Texas officials.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We are not asking them to forgive him, or to let him go,” he added.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We just want them to let him live.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Thomas “Bart” Whitaker is set to be put to death by lethal injection on Feb. 22 for masterminding a 2003 plot near Houston that left his mother Tricia, 51, and brother Kevin, 19, dead and his father Kent with a bullet wound near his heart.	cause_specific
In the 31 states with capital punishment, district attorneys make the decision whether to seek death, balancing the punishment that they consider best serves society with the wishes of the victim’s family.	cause_general
In this case, the local Texas prosecutors pursued death and jurors decided Bart Whitaker, 38, deserved to be executed.	distant_historical
His father, a 69-year-old devout Christian and retired executive, says if that penalty is implemented, it will only intensify his pain.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I am going to be thrown into a deeper grief at the hands of the state of Texas, in the name of justice,” Kent Whitaker said last week, after a 30-minute meeting with the chairman of the Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles in Austin.	distant_expectations_consequences
Whitaker says his son has been a model inmate and has provided letters from death row prison guards to back him up.	distant_evaluation
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union’s justice commissioner said on Monday she will visit Malta in the coming weeks to look at its anti-money laundering moves and check on how an investigation is going into the murder of an investigative journalist.	main
Jourova said she wanted to address this issue in her forthcoming visit and also the strengthening of the Maltese agency to tackle money laundering, the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit.	main
“I of course want to inquiry about the state of play in the investigation on the murder of Madame Galizia,” Jourova told a new conference in Brussels.	distant_evaluation
Three people have been so far charged for the execution of the murder but police have not yet identified who ordered the killing.	cause_general
“This investigation is not just about bringing to justice the people who have actually made the bomb, and made the explosion that killed Daphne.	distant_evaluation
This is also about uncovering who gave the order to do that,” the commission’s vice president Frans Timmermans said, speaking at the same news conference with Jourova.	distant_evaluation
“We will keep pushing the Maltese authorities,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Jourova also said she will discuss Malta’s program to sell citizenship to wealthy individuals.	main
Timmermans insisted that EU passports can be sold only to individuals who have a clear, “demonstrable” link to an European Union country.	cause_general
“This is a question that, I think, can be raised with the Maltese authorities when discussing the passport scheme,” he said.	distant_evaluation
The Commission forced Malta in 2014 to amend its scheme so that only people who had effectively resided on the island for at least 12 months could obtain citizenship, but the country has since allowed foreigners to buy passports with laxer requirements, the Daphne Project consortium found.	distant_historical
European Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans (not pictured) and European Commissioner Vera Jourova hold a news conference on the European Commission proposal concerning the protection of whistleblowers, in Brussels, Belgium, April 23, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Eric Vidal	error
Her visit will increase pressure on the EU member after the European Parliament expressed “serious concerns” about police independence and international money-laundering on the island in a resolution adopted last year..	distant_expectations_consequences
The resolution was adopted after Maltese journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, an anti-corruption campaigner, was killed in October by a car bomb.	distant_historical
(reut.rs/2EYpxlB)	error
Commissioner Vera Jourova said she planned to go to Malta by June to discuss “several” open issues with the authorities.	main
Her decision came as a group of local and international media groups, including Reuters, began following up stories covered by Caruana Galizia, in an initiative called the Daphne Project.	cause_specific
Malta, together with other EU states, faces a sanction procedure for its delay in adopting new EU rules against money laundering.	cause_general
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovaks returned to the streets in their tens of thousands on Thursday, in one of the biggest demonstrations over the murder of an investigative journalist since protests that forced the prime minister to resign last month.	main
Protester’s said police chief Tibor Gaspar must go, and called for the law to be changed to prevent the interior minister naming his successor, something they said might ensure an impartial investigation of Kuciak’s murder.	distant_evaluation
President Andrej Kiska repeated his calls for Gaspar to resign to help rebuild public trust.	distant_evaluation
Interior Minister Tomas Drucker said he may need weeks to assess Gaspar’s performance.	distant_evaluation
Kuciak, who police believe was murdered in a contract killing related to his journalism, used to report on suspected tax fraud, sometimes by people with links to the ruling Smer party.	cause_specific
He also reported on deals between the government and the country’s biggest privately-owned security firm, whose owner is related to Gaspar.	cause_specific
The police chief has denied any wrongdoing.	distant_evaluation
Gaspar was appointed in 2012 by Robert Kalinak, who resigned as interior minister last month.	cause_general
Kuciak had published stories about Kalinak, who has denied wrongdoing.	cause_specific
Before his death, Kuciak was investigating Italian businessmen in Slovakia with suspected mafia links, one of whom had had business dealings with two people who later worked in Fico’s office before resigning in the wake of the murder.	cause_specific
The two have denied any links to the killing.	distant_evaluation
People attend a protest rally in reaction to the murder of Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his fiancee Martina Kusnirova, in Bratislava, Slovakia April 5, 2018.	error
According to Transparency International, no senior Slovak politician has been sent to prison for corruption in the past six years, while six regional politicians have been given suspended sentences.	cause_general
About 48 percent of bribe cases dealt with by courts involved amounts of less than 100 euros.	cause_general
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa	error
The gunning-down of Jan Kuciak, 27, who investigated corruption among politically-connected business people, and his fiancee at their home in February increased widespread anger about persistent corruption allegations.	cause_specific
Long-serving prime minister Robert Fico stepped down to save his three-party government, and picked his deputy, Peter Pellegrini, to lead a reshuffled cabinet.	cause_general
Thursday’s protesters - estimated to number up to 45,000 by News website Dennik N, close to the 50,000 who marched at the height of protests last month - demanded more tangible change and called for the police chief to resign.	main
Police did not provide any crowd figures.	cause_general
“The new government hasn’t done anything to convince me it will be different than the old government,” 38-year-old protester Jan Filip said.	distant_anecdotal
“Almost all of the cases Kuciak covered could already have been investigated, yet none of them made it to court.”	distant_anecdotal
BOSTON (Reuters) - The ex-partner of convicted Boston gangster James “Whitey” Bulger testified on Thursday that he witnessed the strangling of a nightclub manager who died in 1993 as the former boss of the New England mafia watched.	main
“Oh yes, Frank wanted to kill him,” Flemmi said.	distant_evaluation
Flemmi, 83, said he witnessed the strangling when on May 10, 1993, he went to Salemme’s home to talk to Salemme, 84, who he had known and worked with since the 1960s.	distant_historical
He said that he saw Frank Salemme Jr in the kitchen strangling DiSarro as Paul Weadick, an associate also on trial, held his legs and the senior Salemme watched.	distant_historical
Weadick also denies killing Salemme.	cause_general
Concerned Salemme might be under surveillance, Flemmi said that he quickly left.	distant_historical
But he said Salemme later told him DiSarro was killed and that his body was buried in a 20-foot deep hole at a Rhode Island construction site.	distant_historical
The testimony by Flemmi, who has been cooperating with authorities, provided a flashback to an era when organized crime in Boston was run by Salemme and Bulger, the notorious gangster now serving life in prison.	distant_evaluation
Flemmi, who also testified against Bulger at his 2013 trial, said he last saw Salemme while in jail in 1999.	distant_historical
On Wednesday, Flemmi said he did not recognize Salemme in the courtroom even though he was sitting nearby.	distant_evaluation
“I would recognize him if I see him, but I don’t see him,” Flemmi said.	distant_evaluation
"L-R: Francis ""Cadillac Frank"" Salemme, Stephen Flemmi, Francis Salemme Jr and Luigi Manocchio appear in a U.S. government surveillance photograph taken in 1993 provided by the U.S. Attorney's Office in Boston, Massachusetts."	error
According to prosecutors, Salemme had a secret interest in a music venue called The Channel, which DiSarro had purchased.	distant_evaluation
In 1993, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent told DiSarro he would be indicted and should cooperate with authorities who were probing Salemme and his son, who died in 1995, prosecutors have said.	distant_historical
Authorities found his body in 2016 behind a mill in Providence, Rhode Island.	distant_historical
U.S.	error
Courtesy U.S. Attorney's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
Stephen “The Rifleman” Flemmi, who is serving a life sentence for 10 murders, told jurors in federal court in Boston that he saw Francis “Cadillac Frank” Salemme’s son strangle Steven DiSarro as his father watched.	main
Flemmi delivered the testimony during his second day on the stand as the star witness in Salemme’s murder trial.	cause_specific
Salemme, who has confessed to eight other murders, denies killing DiSarro.	cause_general
Flemmi said he saw the incident after Salemme, who headed the New England family of La Costa Nostra, in an earlier conversation expressed concerns that DiSarro was speaking to authorities and might implicate him in criminal activities.	distant_historical
“Did you obtain impression about Mr. DiSarro’s fate?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Fred Wyshak asked.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Matthew Caruana Galizia, son of assassinated investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, and her mother Rose Vella attend a vigil and demonstration marking eight months since her murder in a car bomb, in Valletta, Malta June 16, 2018.	error
All three are pleading not guilty.	cause_general
On Wednesday, the magistrate said her decision was based on the gravity of the crime and her belief that “on the basis of their record” the men probably would not hesitate to flee if granted bail.	distant_evaluation
The accused may not have acted alone, she said, so their release could also interfere with efforts to track down others who may have been involved.	distant_evaluation
Since Caruana Galizia’s murder, Malta has come under pressure from European Union institutions, with an inquiry under way on its banking supervision and calls for investigations into the Mediterranean island country’s rule of law.	cause_general
REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi/File Photo	error
VALLETTA (Reuters) - A Maltese magistrate on Wednesday refused bail to three men accused of murdering Maltese anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia last year, saying they could flee and their release would upset the public.	main
“The way the murder was committed was very disturbing and bore a close resemblance to a mafia execution.	distant_evaluation
Therefore the court feels it should protect society from the disturbance which granting bail would create,” Magistrate Claire Stafrace Zammit said in her decreed denying bail.	distant_evaluation
“The victim was not an ordinary individual, she was a journalist, and therefore her murder can be interpreted as an attack on freedom of expression, which is one of the pillars of our society,” she said.	distant_evaluation
Alfred Degiorgio, his brother George Degiorgio, and Vince Muscat were arrested at the end of last year and accused of the October 2017 car-bomb assassination, though police have said they suspect the murder was ordered by someone else.	distant_historical
In pre-trial hearings, prosecutors said the bomb had been placed in Caruana Galizia’s car and set off by a text message from a mobile phone on a yacht belonging to the Degiorgios.	distant_historical
Stafrace Zammit has already ruled that there is enough evidence for the three to be tried, but the trial’s start date has not been set.	distant_evaluation
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (Reuters) - The third of four men indicted last week in the killing of up-and-coming rapper XXXTentacion was arrested in Georgia on Wednesday, officials said.	main
XXXTentacion’s hit “Sad,” rose to No.	cause_general
1 on the Billboard Hot 100 charts following his death.	cause_general
It was the first time a solo artist in a lead role reached the top spot posthumously since Notorious B.I.G.’s “Mo Money Mo Problems” in 1997, Billboard reported.	cause_general
Attorneys for Boatwright and Williams could not be reached on Thursday.	cause_general
Boatwright and Newsome were armed when they confronted the rapper in an apparent robbery, Broward sheriff’s officials said.	cause_specific
The 20-year-old rapper was taken to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead, according to officials.	cause_specific
XXXTentacion released his first album in August 2017.	distant_historical
His second album “?” debuted at No.	distant_historical
1 on the Billboard 200 album chart when it was released in March.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Robert Allen, 22, a suspect in the shooting death of rapper XXXTentacion, whose real name is Jahseh Dwayne Onfroy, is seen in this Broward Sheriff's Office photo released in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, U.S., July 19, 2018.	error
Courtesy Broward Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo	error
Robert Allen, 22, of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, was being held on Thursday in southern Georgia awaiting transfer to Broward County, Florida, where the 20-year-old “Sad” rapper was killed in an apparent robbery in broad daylight, the Broward sheriff’s office said.	cause_specific
Allen was one of four men indicted a week ago for the June 18 murder of XXXTentacion, who was born and raised as Jahseh Onfroy in Plantation, Florida.	cause_specific
Allen was arrested by U.S. marshals without incident at a relative’s house where he had been staying, said Deputy U.S.	main
Marshal John Edgar, supervisor of the marshals task force out of Macon and Savannah, Georgia.	main
A fourth man, Trayvon Newsome, 20, was still at large on Thursday and two others, Dedrick Williams and Michael Boatwright, both 22, were already in custody on charges of first-degree murder with a firearm and armed robbery with a firearm.	cause_general
XXXTentacion was killed as he left a business in Deerfield Beach, about 40 miles north of Miami.	cause_specific
LONDON (Reuters) - British police said on Friday they had launched a murder investigation following the death this week of a Russian associate of late tycoon Boris Berezovsky.	main
London police said specialist counter-terrorism officers continued to lead the investigation into Glushkov’s death as a precaution due to the associations he was believed to have had.	distant_evaluation
“GODFATHER OF THE KREMLIN”	distant_evaluation
British interior minister Amber Rudd instructed police and intelligence services earlier this week to look at 14 deaths over recent years which were not originally treated as suspicious by police but where media allegations of Russian state involvement had been made.	cause_general
Glushkov had worked for Russian airline Aeroflot and at Berezovksy’s LogoVAZ car company.	cause_general
Berezovsky was found dead in March 2013 with a scarf tied around his neck in the bathroom of a luxury mansion west of London.	distant_historical
The 67-year-old tycoon had been one of Russia’s most powerful figures in the years after the collapse of the Soviet Union.	distant_historical
Berezovsky was known as the “godfather of the Kremlin” before fleeing to London after a row with Putin in 2000, the year the former KGB officer became Russia’s president.	distant_historical
Britain granted Berezovsky political asylum three years later on the grounds that his life would be in danger if he went back home.	distant_historical
His family feared he might have been murdered by enemies in Russia, but British police and forensic experts concluded that Berezovsky had committed suicide.	distant_historical
A British judge in 2014 reached an open verdict on Berezovsky’s death, saying he could not be sure if the Russian killed himself at his former wife’s British home or was the victim of foul play.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Police stand on duty outside the home of Nikolai Glushkov in New Malden, on the outskirts of London Britain, March 14, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls	error
“A murder investigation has been launched following the results of a post mortem into the death of 68-year-old Russian businessman Nikolai Glushkov,” London’s Metropolitan Police said, adding the cause of death was “compression to the neck”.	main
The police said in a statement that at this stage there was nothing to suggest a link to the attempted murders of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter on March 4 or that poison was involved.	distant_evaluation
Earlier on Friday Russia’s Investigative Committee said it had opened a criminal investigation into both the attempted murder of Yulia Skripal and what it said was the murder of Glushkov.	cause_general
It also said it was ready to cooperate with British authorities on the two cases.	distant_expectations_consequences
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said on Friday it was “overwhelmingly likely” that Russian President Vladimir Putin himself had made the decision to use a military-grade nerve toxin to strike down Sergei Skripal.	distant_evaluation
Russia has denied any involvement and has accused Britain of whipping up Russophobia	distant_evaluation
(This story contains language that some readers might find offensive)	error
We were not,” Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare conceded about the tweets at a briefing the day after the shooting at the Annapolis office of the Capital Gazette news group.	distant_evaluation
“We get a threat call a day.	distant_evaluation
It is hard to keep up with them,” Altomare said.	distant_evaluation
Ramos had accused one of the Capital Gazette’s newspapers, The Capital, of defamation for reporting on his guilty plea to a misdemeanor charge of harassing a female acquaintance online.	distant_historical
After his suit was tossed out of court in 2013, Capital Gazette attorneys and officials alerted police about “frank comments” online by Ramos directed at the newspaper and its journalists, Altomare told the briefing.	distant_historical
But during a 2013 conference call between Capital Gazette attorneys and police investigators, lawyers said the company decided against pressing harassment charges against Ramos, the chief said.	distant_historical
“There was a fear that doing so would exacerbate an already flammable situation,” Altomare said.	distant_evaluation
A representative from the Baltimore Sun Media Group, which owns the Capital Gazette, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.	cause_general
When asked why the department did not insist on pursuing criminal charges at the time, Altomare said it was the investigator’s call and he would not question it in hindsight.	distant_evaluation
“If it is felony, we push,” Altomare said.	distant_evaluation
Jarrod Ramos, suspected of killing five people at the offices of the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis, Maryland, U.S., June 28, 2018 is seen in this Anne Arundel Police Department booking photo provided June 29, 2018.	error
“If it is a misdemeanor - a lot of misdemeanors go the way of not charging.	distant_evaluation
I don’t feel the department was negligent in any way.”	distant_evaluation
“LEAVE ME ALONE”	distant_evaluation
Ramos began by at least 2014 to post regularly on a Twitter account about his legal battle against The Capital, using a handle that incorporated the name of the reporter who wrote the story that triggered the failed defamation lawsuit.	distant_historical
The tweets on the account @EricHartleyFrnd referenced the battle against The Capital, its then-editor Thomas Marquardt and reporter Eric Hartley, who has since left the newspaper.	distant_historical
“Yes, Eric Thomas Hartley, you moved to ... oh just go ahead and kill yourself already before I do (legally in court),” read a tweet in 2014.	distant_historical
The account abruptly went silent in January 2016.	distant_historical
But on Thursday, before the newsroom shooting began, a new post appeared: “Fuck you, leave me alone @judgemoylanfrnd,” a reference to Judge Charles Moylan, who upheld the dismissal of the defamation case in 2015.	cause_general
Ramos, 38, from Laurel, Maryland, faces five counts of first degree murder in Anne Arundel County criminal court.	main
Marquardt told the Baltimore Sun he was not surprised to hear Ramos identified as the gunman.	distant_evaluation
Anne Arundel Police/Handout via REUTERS	error
“I was seriously concerned he would threaten us with physical violence,” Marquardt said.	distant_evaluation
“I even told my wife, ‘We have to be concerned.	distant_evaluation
This guy could really hurt us.’”	distant_evaluation
By Gina Cherelus and Tea Kvetenadze	error
(Reuters) - The man suspected of killing five people in a Maryland newsroom posted a barrage of hostile tweets over more than two years about the newspaper but law enforcement remained unaware of those posts until after the attack, the local police chief said on Friday.	distant_evaluation
Police, however, had known that the suspect, Jarrod Ramos, had posted threatening comments on his web page about the newspaper, which he had unsuccessfully sued for defamation in 2012.	distant_historical
“We were not aware of that history until last night.	distant_evaluation
Should we have been?	distant_evaluation
In a perfect world, sure, we should have been.	distant_evaluation
MANILA (Reuters) - Motorcycle-borne gunmen on Tuesday assassinated a mayor in a town north of the Philippine capital, the second such killing of an official in two days, police said.	main
At Halili’s wake, his daughter Angeline told reporters it was unfair to link her father to the drug trade, and said Duterte had been misinformed.	distant_evaluation
“I can’t blame the president,” she added.	distant_evaluation
“If that’s always what you hear from the same people that you talk to — and they keep telling you the same thing — it gets in your system to the point that you believe it, even though it’s a lie.”	distant_evaluation
Halili had been stripped of his supervisory powers over police in October 2017, due to a proliferation of illegal drugs in his city, amid allegations by the national police that he may have been involved.	distant_historical
Halili had denied the allegations.	distant_historical
Police have killed more than 4,200 people in the anti-narcotics campaign since July 2016, with another 2,500 suspected drug suspects killed by unknown assailants over the same period.	cause_general
Human rights advocates said the victims were executed by the police, who have denied the accusations, saying most of the killings were done in self-defense.	distant_evaluation
Ferdinand Bote, 57, became the 12th elected local official murdered since President Rodrigo Duterte unleashed a deadly anti-narcotics campaign after coming to power two years ago, although Bote was not linked to the drug trade.	cause_general
He and his driver were leaving a government office in the capital of Nueva Ecija province when gunmen approached his sport utility vehicle and shot him dead, said Adrian Gabriel, the town’s police chief.	cause_specific
“He was repeatedly shot with the use of a short firearm,” police said in an initial report, but the driver escaped unhurt.	cause_specific
Police retrieved at least 18 empty shells at the scene.	cause_general
The government will spare no effort in getting to the bottom of the latest crime, said Harry Roque, a spokesman for Duterte.	distant_evaluation
“We assure everyone that we will discharge the state obligation for every murder,” Roque said in a statement, promising a fair and thorough investigation by police to bring the perpetrators to justice.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Monday, Antonio Halili, 72, who had gained prominence in 2016 for parading drug suspects in the streets of Tanauan, south of Manila, was hit by a bullet in the chest while attending a weekly flag-raising ceremony.	cause_general
Duterte said the mayor may have had some drug involvement and his “walk of shame” campaign to parade suspects was a ploy to convince police he was not engaged in the illegal drug trade.	distant_evaluation
RUSE, Bulgaria (Reuters) - The European Commission urged Bulgaria on Monday to conduct a rapid investigation into the killing of journalist Viktoria Marinova as hundreds of mourners held vigils in her hometown and cities throughout the Balkan country.	main
She said the regional current affairs show, “Detector”, would do similar investigations.	distant_evaluation
Chief Prosecutor Sotir Tsatsarov said a bank transfer of 14 million euros ($16.06 million) had been frozen as part of a pre-trial investigation into issues raised by the investigative journalists on the show but declined to give further details.	cause_general
“There is no way that I can believe that this killing is random, after it happened just few days after the show that featured such massive misuse of funds.	distant_evaluation
I am glad so many people are here,” said Stoyka Panagonova, a mother of three, at the vigil in Ruse.	distant_evaluation
The European anti-fraud office OLAF declined to comment on the killing.	cause_general
But its press office said it was “aware of allegations concerning possible misuse of EU funds in Bulgaria that have been brought to light by journalists in recent weeks”.	distant_evaluation
Marinova’s appearance on “Detector” was the first time she had anchored the show on Ruse-based TV station TVN - a popular channel in northeastern Bulgaria.	cause_general
Previously, she was best known for presenting a regional lifestyle show and was not a household name nationally.	cause_general
CANDLES LIT	cause_general
Interior Minister Mladen Marinov has said that there was no evidence to suggest a link to Marinova’s work as journalist so far - something echoed by police and prosecutors.	distant_evaluation
Bulgarian TV journalist Viktoria Marinova.	error
“We are working on all possible motives and we do not exclude any,” Marinov told reporters on Monday in Ruse, Bulgaria’s main Danube river port city.	distant_evaluation
He said no match had been found so far for DNA collected from the crime scene, which was close to a psychiatric clinic.	cause_general
Police and prosecutors said they were working on three possible motives - whether Marinova was a victim of a random attack by a person with a mental disorder, a planned attack or whether the crime was linked to her personal life.	distant_evaluation
Marinova would be the third journalist murdered in the European Union over the past 12 months.	cause_general
Daphne Caruana Galizia, Malta’s best-known investigative reporter, was killed when a bomb blew up her car in October last year and Slovak journalist Jan Kuciak was shot dead in February.	distant_historical
Hundreds of people flocked to Ruse’s main square to put flowers in front of a picture of Marinova, with some in the crowds urging the authorities not to play down the possibility her work was a reason for the killing.	cause_general
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
“I strongly hope that the truth will soon be uncovered, her perpetrator or perpetrators found and justly punished,” Teodora Shopova said after lighting a candle at the vigil.	distant_anecdotal
Vigils for Marinova, mother of a seven-year-old daughter, were also held in downtown Sofia as well as several other cities, with many demanding justice and an independent, even international, investigation.	cause_general
The TVN channel expressed shock over the killing of its colleague and board member, but declined to comment further.	distant_evaluation
TVN.bg/via Reuters	error
Prosecutors said the 30-year-old had been raped, beaten and suffocated.	cause_specific
Marinova’s body was found in a park near the Danube river in Ruse on Saturday.	cause_specific
“There is no democracy without a free press ... We expect a swift and thorough investigation to bring those responsible to justice,” the European Commission, the European Union’s executive said in a tweet.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bulgaria ranked 111 out of 180 countries in the Reporters Without Borders world press freedom index this year, lower than any other EU member.	cause_general
While there has been no link established to her work so far, the killing has angered and upset many in a country where people are frustrated with rampant corruption and an inefficient and graft-prone judiciary, for which Sofia has been repeatedly rapped by the European Commission.	cause_general
On her last aired TV show, on Sept. 30, Marinova introduced two journalists who were investigating alleged corruption involving EU funds.	cause_general
DENVER (Reuters) - A Colorado man, who earlier this week pleaded for the safe return of his pregnant wife and their two young daughters after they went missing, has been arrested on suspicion of killing them, police said on Thursday.	main
Watts made a brief appearance in court and was ordered held without bail until at least his next court appearance next week, Weld County assistant district attorney Robert Miller said by phone.	main_consequence
Watts, dressed in an orange jail jumpsuit and in shackles, did not speak to reporters.	cause_general
Chrisopher Watts, 33, arrested on suspicion of murdering his pregnant wife and two young daughters, in Frederick, Colorado, U.S., is shown in this handout photo provided August 16, 2018.	error
Weld County Sheriff's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
Prosecutors said in court they believed Watts’ wife and two daughters were killed at their home, TV station Denver 7 reported from the courthouse.	distant_evaluation
Watts said in an interview with Denver 7 on Tuesday he was torn up inside about his family going missing and pleaded for their return.	distant_evaluation
“I just want them to come back,” Watts told the broadcaster.	distant_evaluation
“My kids are my life.	distant_evaluation
Those smiles light up my life.	distant_evaluation
I want everybody to just come home.”	distant_evaluation
The body of a woman, believed to be the spouse of Christopher Watts, 33, of Frederick, Colorado, was discovered on a property owned by Anadarko Petroleum Corp, police said.	cause_specific
Watts worked at the property, according to media reports.	cause_specific
The search for the bodies of the couple’s two daughters, Celeste, 3, and Bella, 4, turned up human remains that were believed to belong to the two children, Frederick police said on Twitter on Thursday.	cause_specific
Their bodies were found in the same area as their mother, Shanann Watts, 34.	cause_specific
Christopher Watts was taken into custody late on Wednesday for the suspected murder of his wife and two daughters.	main
“This is absolutely the worst possible outcome that any of us could imagine,” John Camper, director of the Colorado Bureau of Investigation, told a news briefing about the incident in Frederick, about 30 miles (50 km) north of Denver.	distant_evaluation
Officials also declined to comment on media reports that Watts had confessed to the killings.	cause_general
Weld County District Attorney Michael Rourke told reporters his office had until Monday to file formal charges against Watts.	cause_general
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - A Belgian court sentenced Paris attacks suspect Salah Abdeslam and a co-accused to 20 years in prison on Monday for trying to kill police during a shootout in Brussels in 2016.	main
They finally stumbled across him when, with French officers, they went to inspect a suspect apartment in Forest and then came under a hail of gunfire which wounded four of them.	distant_historical
After a three-hour siege ended with marksmen killing a 35-year-old Algerian called Mohamed Belkaid, police found an arms cache.	distant_historical
Abdeslam’s DNA found at the scene linked him to the shootout and that led to his arrest three days later in a different apartment in Brussels.	distant_historical
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
Four days after his arrest, suicide bombers attacked Brussels Airport and the city’s metro, killing 32 people.	distant_historical
Officials believe Abdeslam had links with the bombers and that they brought forward their attack because they feared Abdeslam might reveal their plans under interrogation.	distant_evaluation
Abdeslam was present on the opening day of the trial, but refused to answer the judge’s questions.	distant_historical
His lawyer Sven Mary told reporters on Monday that he discuss the case with his client before determining whether to appeal.	distant_expectations_consequences
Judge Marie-France Keutgen told the courtroom that 28-year-old Abdeslam and Tunisian Sofien Ayari, 24, had been found guilty of “attempted terrorist murder” during the shootout in March 2016.	cause_specific
Abdeslam is in a French prison awaiting trial for his role in the Islamic State attacks in Paris in November 2015 in which 130 people were killed.	cause_general
Prosecutors say he is the lone survivor of a suicide squad.	cause_general
Neither he nor Ayari, who is in custody in Belgium, was present for the judgment.	cause_general
Despite the absence of both accused, security was tight around the Brussels court, with heavily armed police on guard.	cause_general
By the time of the shootout in the Brussels district of Forest on March 15, 2016, Abdeslam had been in hiding for four months after fleeing Paris the night his elder brother blew himself up at a cafe.	distant_historical
Prosecutors who accuse Abdeslam of helping organize the attacks and ferry former fighters from Syria around Europe say he, too, would have died if his suicide vest had not failed to detonate.	distant_evaluation
His lawyers do not dispute Abdeslam was in Paris during the attacks.	cause_general
(Reuters) - A former Virginia Tech student was convicted of kidnapping and murdering a 13-year-old girl after telling the judge overseeing his trial that he wanted to enter a plea of no contest on Friday, a local prosecutor said.	main
A second former Virginia Polytechnic Institute student, Natalie Keepers, who is charged with being Eisenhauer’s accomplice and helping to conceal Lovell’s body faces trial later this year after pleading not guilty.	cause_general
Keepers, 20, became friends with Eisenhauer, a fellow engineering student, before Lovell’s abduction, according to police in Blacksburg.	distant_evaluation
Keepers also faces life in prison if convicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
In brief, emotional remarks made after the hearing on Friday, Lovell’s mother, Tammy Weeks, said she was blessed to raise a “bright and beautiful girl.”	distant_evaluation
“We fought every fight together but this last one,” Weeks said, clutching a tissue.	distant_evaluation
David Eisenhauer, 19, was convicted of abducting, killing and concealing the body of middle-school student Nicole Lovell in January 2016, according to Mary Pettitt, the chief prosecutor in Montgomery County, Virginia.	main
He faces a sentence of up to life in prison.	main_consequence
Lovell’s body was found stabbed by a rural North Carolina roadside, about 90 miles south of her hometown of Blacksburg.	distant_historical
She had disappeared four days earlier from Blacksburg, where Virginia Tech is located, and the crime left the university and local community reeling.	distant_historical
Eisenhauer may have had an inappropriate relationship with Lovell, the Washington Post has reported.	distant_evaluation
Lovell told a friend she planned to run away with Eisenhauer and start a family, the Post reported.	distant_anecdotal
Under Virginia law, a defendant can plead no contest without admitting to the crime if the defendant agrees that the prosecutor has enough evidence that the court return a guilty verdict.	cause_general
It is treated the same as a guilty plea for conviction and sentencing.	cause_general
BOSTON (Reuters) - A federal prosecutor on Monday urged jurors to find a former New England mob boss guilty of murdering a nightclub manager in 1993, citing the eyewitness testimony of the ex-partner of convicted Boston gangster James “Whitey” Bulger.	main
“That’s not who we’re talking about here.	distant_evaluation
We’re talking about Frank Salemme from 25 years ago.”	distant_evaluation
Steven Boozang, Salemme’s lawyer, countered by urging jurors to reject the testimony of the government’s star witnesses including Flemmi, who he called a “sociopath.”	distant_evaluation
He argued Flemmi, who is serving a life prison term, made up the story of witnessing DiSarro’s murder in order to implicate a top organized crime figure and win a potential sentence reduction.	distant_evaluation
“He’s a career opportunist,” Boozang said in his closing argument.	distant_evaluation
“He’s deceived people his whole life.	distant_evaluation
He’s lying to you.	distant_evaluation
He’s lying to the government.	distant_evaluation
The trial has provided a flashback to an era when organized crime in Boston was run by Salemme, who headed the New England family of La Costa Nostra, and Bulger, who is now serving life in prison.	distant_evaluation
According to prosecutors, Salemme had a secret interest in a music venue called The Channel, which DiSarro had purchased.	distant_evaluation
"L-R: Francis ""Cadillac Frank"" Salemme, Stephen Flemmi, Francis Salemme Jr and Luigi Manocchio appear in a U.S. government surveillance photograph taken in 1993 provided by the U.S. Attorney's Office in Boston, Massachusetts."	error
In 1993, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent told DiSarro he would be indicted and should cooperate with authorities who were investigating Salemme and his son, who died in 1995, prosecutors have said.	distant_historical
Authorities found DiSarro’s body in 2016 buried behind a mill in Providence, Rhode Island.	distant_historical
U.S.	error
Courtesy U.S. Attorney's Office/Handout via REUTERS	error
Assistant U.S. Attorney William Ferland asked the federal jury in Boston to credit the testimony of Stephen “The Rifleman” Flemmi, who said he saw the son of Francis “Cadillac Frank” Salemme strangle Steven DiSarro as the elder Salemme watched.	main
Ferland said Flemmi told authorities about DiSarro’s slaying when he cut a deal to plead guilty to 10 murders and become a cooperating witness in 2003, long before DiSarro’s remains were found in Rhode Island in 2016.	cause_specific
Flemmi testified that on May 10, 1993, he went to Salemme’s home, where he saw Salemme’s now-deceased son, Frank Jr., strangle DiSarro as Paul Weadick, an associate also on trial, held his legs and Salemme Sr. watched.	cause_specific
Ferland said Salemme decided to have DiSarro killed after coming to believe he was cooperating with authorities investigating him.	distant_evaluation
“He looks like a seasoned, old, polite gentleman,” Ferland told jurors, pointing to the 84-year-old defendant.	distant_evaluation
BERLIN (Reuters) - Iraq has extradited a 20-year-old Iraqi suspected of raping and killing a 14-year-old girl in Germany last month, German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said on Saturday.	main
Police said there was no evidence her religion had been a factor and the Central Council of Jews in Germany cautioned against attributing any anti-Semitic motive.	distant_evaluation
Kurdish security forces had taken the suspect, identified by German authorities as Ali Bashar, into custody on Friday after he fled from Germany last week.	cause_specific
“Officers in Zakho (in Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region) called me and said they had located the suspect and would arrest him as soon as he comes to the city,” Dohuk city police chief Tariq Ahmed told Reuters.	cause_general
“He had been staying at a hotel in Dohuk and after realizing the police were after him left for Zakho to stay at a relative’s house.	cause_general
He was asleep there at night and was arrested in that house at 5:30 (a.m.),” Ahmed said.	cause_specific
He said the suspect had confessed to killing the German teenager during interrogation by Kurdish security authorities.	cause_specific
INCREDIBLE SUFFERING	distant_evaluation
German media reported earlier that Bashar was expected to be extradited to Germany on Saturday evening and questioned by German investigators on Sunday.	cause_general
German federal police declined to comment on the details emerging from the suspect’s arrest or on the report on the timing of extradition.	cause_general
Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed her dismay at the crime and said it should be a reminder to Germans of the need to do whatever possible for the integration of immigrants.	distant_evaluation
Twenty-year-old Iraqi Ali B. is escorted by special police upon his arrival in Wiesbaden, Germany, June 9, 2018, after his arrest by police in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, admitting to the rape and murder of Susanna F., a 14-year-old German girl.	error
“The incredible suffering experienced by the family, the victim, affects everyone, including me,” she said on the sidelines of a G7 summit meeting in Canada.	distant_evaluation
“The cooperation in this regard between German and Kurdish security authorities worked well here ...	distant_evaluation
It is good that the alleged perpetrator was caught, that he probably also will be returning to Germany,” Merkel said.	distant_evaluation
She added, “This is a reminder to all of us, first, to take the task of integration very seriously, to make our common values very clear, again and again.	distant_evaluation
But also to punish any crime.	distant_evaluation
We can only live together if we all stick to our laws.”	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (7 Images)	error
Merkel’s decision to take in large numbers of asylum seekers during Europe’s 2015 migrant crisis has stirred a political backlash, with many politicians calling for new rules to make it easier to deport immigrants.	cause_general
Bashar had been living in Germany as a refugee since 2015, German media have reported.	cause_general
German police set up a special call center for tips from the public and issued releases in Arabic and Turkish.	cause_general
REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski	error
They said on Thursday that Bashar had likely fled to Erbil in the KRG.	distant_evaluation
“I’m glad that the alleged perpetrator wanted by German authorities is back in Germany,” Seehofer said in a statement, adding that the investigation of the case could now be accelerated.	distant_expectations_consequences
“For the girl’s family, that is only a small consolation, and my thoughts are with them during these difficult hours,” Seehofer said.	distant_evaluation
“But for the state and our society, it is important that crimes are cleared up and suspects are brought to justice.”	distant_evaluation
Police in the Kurdistan region of Iraq said on Saturday the Iraqi suspect had admitted to the murder of 14-year-old Susanna Feldman in Germany, where the case has stoked the immigration debate.	cause_specific
The Jewish teenager from Mainz near Frankfurt was found dead on Wednesday in a wooded area in Wiesbaden, near a refugee center where the alleged attacker had lived, German police said.	cause_specific
An autopsy showed she had been the victim of a violent and sexual attack.	cause_specific
DAR ES SALAAM (Reuters) - Five more suspects were charged in a Tanzanian court on Friday for the murder of prominent conservationist Wayne Lotter, bringing to eight the total number of people arraigned over the killing.	main
Three other suspects were charged for the same crime in October last year.	distant_historical
Lotter, 51, co-founder of PAMS Foundation USA, a non governmental organization that supports anti-poaching efforts across Africa, was shot dead in Tanzania’s commercial capital Dar es Salaam on Aug. 16, 2017.The five suspects charged yesterday include a Burundian national, Nduimana Jonas, 40, who is also known by the alias “the Priest,” according to court documents seen by Reuters.	distant_historical
The other suspects arraigned on Friday at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court are Tanzanian businessmen Godfrey Salamba, 42, Innocent Kimaro, 23, Chambie Ally, 32, and a local bank employee, Robert Mwaipyana, 31.The three suspects charged last year for shooting dead the South African-born conservationist are bank employee Khalid Mwinyi, 33, his sister Rahma Mwinyi, 37, and a laborer, Mohamed Maganga, 61.The suspects, who were charged with murder and conspiracy to commit murder, were not allowed to enter a plea until the case is transferred to the Tanzanian High Court, which has jurisdiction over murder cases.	cause_general
The case was adjourned until March 6 when it is scheduled to come up for another mentioning.Lotter supported an elite Tanzanian anti-poaching unit that has had a number of successful arrests in recent years, colleagues said.He also worked on the Ivory Queen case, which saw Yang Feng Glan, a Chinese, charged with running a smuggling empire that stretched form East Africa to Asian markets.	cause_general
She denies the charges in a separate ongoing court case in Tanzania.	cause_general
It was unclear if Lotter’s death was related to his work, colleagues said.	distant_evaluation
His assailant reportedly stole his laptop, said two colleagues who declined to be named.	distant_anecdotal
“We are relieved that some of the perpetrators responsible for his untimely death have been apprehended and are being brought to justice,” PAMS Foundation said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday refused to hear a Wisconsin man’s challenge to his conviction in a 2005 murder in which he said police coerced him into confessing, a case featured in a Netflix documentary series called “Making a Murderer.”	main
“The video of Brendan’s interrogation shows a confused boy who was manipulated by experienced police officers into accepting their story of how the murder of Teresa Halbach happened.”	distant_evaluation
Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel was pleased with Monday’s decision.	distant_evaluation
“We hope the family and friends of Ms. Halbach can find comfort in knowing this ordeal has finally come to a close,” Schimel said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
A 10-part Netflix documentary called into question the conduct of law enforcement officials in Manitowoc County, drawing attention to the case and the broader issue of the rights of criminal defendants.	cause_general
The victim’s charred remains were found in an incineration pit at Avery’s home and scrap yard about 80 miles (130 km) north of Milwaukee.	distant_historical
Dassey and his uncle were convicted of the 2005 murder in separate trials.	distant_historical
Both were given sentences of life in prison.	distant_historical
A federal magistrate judge in 2016 found that the confession had been coerced.	distant_historical
A three-judge panel of the Chicago-based 7th U.S.	distant_historical
Circuit Court of Appeals initially upheld the judge’s ruling, but in a rehearing requested by state prosecutors the 7th Circuit ruled against Dassey.	distant_historical
The justices turned away Brendan Dassey’s appeal of a lower court ruling upholding his conviction for murder, sexual assault and mutilation of a corpse in the death of a freelance photographer named Teresa Halbach.	main
Dassey’s lawyers have said that during interrogation he frequently gave incorrect answers, suggesting he was not involved in the murder.	distant_evaluation
They cited exchanges in which Dassey gave correct answers only when fed the answers by the police officers.	distant_evaluation
The 7th Circuit concluded that Dassey had spoken to police voluntarily with his mother’s permission, and provided investigators with “damning details” about the killing in response to open-ended questions.	distant_historical
Dassey, 16 years old at the time of the murder and now 28, told police officers who interrogated him four times in 48 hours that he had helped his uncle, Steven Avery, rape and kill Halbach.	distant_historical
Dassey’s lawyers have said he has “significant intellectual and social limitations” and was coerced into confessing in violation of his constitutional rights.	distant_evaluation
Dassey and Avery were convicted of the murder in separate trials.	distant_historical
Avery is now 55.	cause_general
Both men are in prison in Wisconsin.	cause_general
Dassey’s attorney, Laura Nirider, said she would continue to fight to free her client.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Brendan was a 16 year old with intellectual and social disabilities when he confessed to a crime he did not commit,” she said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Accused killer, Bruce McArthur, a 66-year-old freelance landscaper appears in a photo posted on his social media account.	error
McArthur has also been charged with killing five other men: Selim Esen, Andrew Kinsman, Majeed Kayhan, Soroush Marmudi and Dean Lisowick.	cause_general
Police have said they will continue to search for evidence of more killings as they believe there are more victims.	distant_expectations_consequences
When the ground warms up, authorities intend to use police dogs to search for more evidence on the grounds of the home where the remains have been found, Idsinga said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Facebook/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo	error
TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto police said on Friday that they have charged Bruce McArthur with a sixth murder, expanding the number of deaths blamed on the 66-year-old landscaper in a case that has shaken the city’s gay community.	main
Authorities have charged McArthur with the murder of Skandaraj Navaratnam, a 40-year-old man who went missing in 2010 from a neighborhood in downtown Toronto that is known as the city’s gay village, according to Toronto detective Hank Idsinga.	main
McArthur, who was arrested in January, has not filed a plea on any of the charges.	cause_general
His lawyer Calvin Rosemond declined to comment when reached by phone on Friday.	cause_general
Toronto police have been criticized by some in the gay community for taking years to solve disappearances dating back to at least 2010.	distant_evaluation
Navaratnam’s remains were among those found in large planters at a north Toronto home where McArthur did landscaping work, Idsinga said at a press conference.	cause_specific
Police have yet to identify three other individuals whose remains were found in the planters, Idsinga said.	cause_general
MEXICO CITY, June 9 (Xinhua) -- The government of the northern Mexican state of Coahuila condemned on Saturday the murder of a candidate of the Revolutionary Institutional Party (PRI).	main
Around 88 million Mexicans are called on to vote on July 1 to elect a new president, eight governors, the mayor of Mexico City, as well as 500 federal deputies and 128 senators.	distant_expectations_consequences
The 43-year-old former mayor Fernando Puron was murdered Friday evening in the city of Piedras Negras.	cause_specific
The governor of Coahuila, Miguel Angel Riquelme, slammed the murder and said his administration would find those responsible and punish them.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to local press reports, an assassin shot Puron in the head, when he was leaving a debate at the Autonomous University of Coahuila.	cause_specific
"""I have instructed the security forces in the state, in coordination with ministerial authorities, to carry out an expedited investigation to clarify the facts,"" said Riquelme in a statement."	distant_evaluation
The governor called Puron an exemplary public servant who, as mayor of Piedras Negras, had combated crime as the city suffered a wave of violence from the Los Zetas cartel.	distant_evaluation
Puron had been the target of death threats painted on walls in the city in February 2016.	distant_historical
The counselor of Mexico's National Electoral Institute (INE), Marco Antonio Banos, lamented in a television interview that this murder joined the 20 or so assassinations of candidates during the campaign.	distant_evaluation
Puron's remains were handed over on Saturday morning to be displayed by his family in a church of Piedras Negras.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-10 08:37:18|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
PHNOM PENH, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- A Cambodian court on Monday granted bail to former opposition leader Kem Sokha charged with treason, according to a court verdict.	main
In the verdict, Phnom Penh Municipal Court judge Ky Rithy ordered the prison chief to free Kem Sokha, former president of the Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP), on bail.	main
Chan Chen, one of Kem Sokha's lawyers, confirmed Sokha's release, saying that his client was freed from the Trapaing Thlong Prison in southeastern Tboung Khmum province at 3:30 a.m. local time and arrived at his home in Phnom Penh's Tuol Kork district at around 5:00 a.m. local time.	main_consequence
"""As his lawyer, I welcome this move and congratulate my client on being released on bail,"" he told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
Kem Sokha, 65, was arrested on Sept. 3 last year and charged with treason for conspiring with a foreign power in an attempt to overthrow the government.	distant_historical
He could face up to 30 years in prison if found guilty of committing treason.	distant_expectations_consequences
More than two months after his arrest, the CNRP was dissolved by the Supreme Court and 118 senior party members were banned from joining politics for five years.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-03-30 14:27:39|Editor: Mengjie	error
Gao confessed in court and said he would not file an appeal.	cause_general
Police hunted Gao for 28 years until one of his relatives committed a crime and underwent DNA testing in 2015, which led to his arrest in August 2016.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
Gao Chengyong (2nd L, front) is on trial at the people's intermediate court of Baiyin City, northwest China's Gansu Province, March 30, 2018.	error
The court Friday handed down a death penalty on Gao for crimes of murder, robbery, rape and mutilating corpses.	error
Gao confessed in court and said he would not file an appeal.	error
(Xinhua/The people's intermediate court of Baiyin City)	error
LANZHOU, March 30 (Xinhua) -- A court in northwest China's Gansu Province Friday handed down a death penalty on a man for crimes of murder, robbery, rape and mutilating corpses.	main
Gao Chengyong, 53, was found to have killed 11 female victims between May 1988 and February 2002 in Gansu Province and neighboring Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, according to the people's intermediate court of Baiyin City.	cause_specific
The court found he killed the victims to cover up robbery or rape in Baiyin, Gansu and Baotou, Inner Mongolia.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-28 20:21:58|Editor: xuxin	error
The Mufti's opinion is non-binding as it is usually considered a formality.	distant_evaluation
The defendants included Essam El-Erian, the deputy leader of the Brotherhood's freedom and Justice Party, Moahmed al-Beltagi, secretary general of the party, Safwat Hegazi, prominent preacher of the Brotherhood, and Assem Abdel Maguid, prominent member of the group's Shura Council, as well as other Islamists leaders.	cause_general
Rabaa was one of two sites where supporters of the ousted Islamist President Mohamed Morsi gathered in the weeks following his overthrow by the army in July 2013 in response to mass protests against his one-year rule.	distant_historical
The sit-in was dispersed violently by security men, after many warnings by the government.	distant_historical
The protesters have been accused of hindering traffic, causing public disorder, terrifying the residents as they possessed weapons.	distant_historical
Morsi's Brotherhood group was banned by the government and most of his group have received verdicts varied from death, to life sentences over violence, killing and espionage.	cause_general
Morsi is currently serving a 20-year prison sentence over inciting deadly clashes between his supporters and opponents in late 2012 and a 25-year jail term over leaking classified documents to Qatar.	cause_general
The verdicts can be appealed.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ahmad Ban, expert with Cairo-based Nile Center for religious movement affairs, and a Brotherhood dissident, said the verdicts could be appealed several times, predicting president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi will pardon several figures including Morsi when if finally comes to execution.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The pardon will be focused mainly on the Islamists who weren't involved directly in killing security men or civilians,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
He added both the country and the Brotherhood group will seek reconciliation, but each side is waiting for more concessions.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sentencing for more than 660 other Islamists in another case was set for Sept. 8, according to state-run Ahram news website.	distant_expectations_consequences
The case involves the Muslim Brotherhood's Supreme Guide Mohammed Badie and a photographer Mahmoud Abu Zeid.	cause_general
Charges range from murder to damaging public property.	cause_general
Since Morsi's ouster, Egypt has been facing a wave of terror attacks that have killed hundreds of policemen and soldiers as well as civilians.	cause_general
A Sinai-based militant group affiliated with the Islamic State (IS) regional terrorist group has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks in Egypt over the past few years.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the Egyptian forces have killed hundreds of terrorists and arrested thousands of suspects during the country's anti-terror war declared by newly re-elected President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, the army chief then, following Morsi's ouster.	cause_general
A judge speaks during a verdict session in Cairo, Egypt July 28, 2018.	error
An Egyptian court on Saturday sentenced 75 members of the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood to death over charges of violence and murder, a judicial source said.	error
(Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)	error
CAIRO, July 28 (Xinhua) -- An Egyptian court on Saturday sentenced 75 members of the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood to death over charges of violence and murder, a judicial source said.	main
"The case, publicly known as ""Breaking up Rabaa Sit-in,"" dated back to 2013."	distant_historical
The convicted were charged with causing deaths of policemen, attempted murder and vandalism, the source told Xinhua.	cause_specific
The court referred the sentence to Grand Mufti, the country's highest Islamic official who will give the religious judgment of all preliminary death sentences.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-15 02:49:47|Editor: yan	error
So far, Stock said, Interpol has implemented a raft of technical measures, including granting access to its databases to security officers at major airports, sea ports, and land border crossings.	cause_general
At the meeting, Matiang'i expressed Kenya's desire to collaborate with Interpol to build an unassailable cyber environment ahead of the launch of the National Integrated Identity Management System, the statement said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Matiang'i said Kenya is working with various anti-money laundering agencies across the globe to identify sources and destinations of proceeds of crime.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
NAIROBI, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- The International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) on Friday vowed to partner with Kenya to fight global terrorism and transnational organized crimes.	main
Visiting Interpol Secretary General Jürgen Stock described Kenya as a crucial partner in the global regime against international crimes.	distant_evaluation
Stock, who met with Fred Matiang'i, Kenya's cabinet secretary for interior, said a mega-project that will serve as one of Interpol's global early warning systems is underway in Nairobi.	cause_general
He said Interpol has also enhanced interoperability with various national border security systems for greater efficiency.	distant_evaluation
"""It's now possible for border officers to screen people, vessels, and commodities against the millions of records we have in our databases,"" Stock was quoted as saying."	distant_evaluation
"""Rest assured that no criminal will cross undetected,"" he said, according to a statement issued after the meeting."	distant_expectations_consequences
Kenya hosts Interpol Bureau for Eastern Africa, which covers 13 countries.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-29 19:40:17|Editor: xuxin	error
President of the Bar Association of Serbia Viktor Gostiljac told Tanjug News Agency that lawyers are in shock after the murder of Ognjanovic and announced that the association will stop working next week in protest.	distant_expectations_consequences
Gostiljac said on behalf of the members of the bar association that this represents an attack on all lawyers and demanded immediate action from the competent authorities.	distant_evaluation
Immediately after the shooting, the police started a thorough operation of stopping and searching all suspicious vehicles and passers-by.	main_consequence
Video Player Close	error
BELGRADE, July 29 (Xinhua) -- Serbian lawyer Dragoslav Misa Ognjanovic was gunned down here on Saturday by an unknown perpetrator while his son was wounded, the police confirmed Sunday.	main
The murder of the 56-year-old lawyer who was involved in some of the biggest cases in the past decade took place in New Belgrade around 7:30 p.m. local time in front of an apartment building.	main
Head of the Criminal Police Directorate Dejan Kovacevic stated in a statement that the criminal police inspectors are conducting the investigation, while several other units are engaged in an ongoing intensive search for the perpetrator who killed lawyer Ognjanovic and wounded his 26-year-old son.	cause_general
Ognjanovic had represented some of the most famous clients.	distant_evaluation
According to the reports, he was one of legal advisors of the former Serbia's President Slobodan Milosevic who was trialed for war crimes at the Hague, Netherlands until his death in 2006.	distant_historical
Moreover, media reports connected Ognjanovic with Luka Bojovic, a citizen of Serbia who serves 18 years of prison in Spain due to organized crime charges, as well as Djordje Prelic, a leader of Partizan football fans convicted for murdering a French football fan in downtown Belgrade.	distant_historical
According to reports, in recent years Ognjanovic mostly worked for Bojovic, while on the other hand, in past several months numerous Bojovic's associates and friends were shot dead in Belgrade in an alleged war of clans for the domination over the illegal narcotics trade.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-05 11:48:26|Editor: Liu	error
Some 42 areas which account for 5.79 percent of the total land of Myanmar, have been designated as protected zones, he added.	cause_general
Under the Conservation of Biodiversity and Protected Areas Law enacted in May, wildlife protection has been classified at three levels -- totally protected, normally protected and seasonally protected species.	distant_historical
Elephant, tiger, leopard, gaur, bear, golden deer and pangolin are named as totally protected species.	cause_general
Under the law, one can be sentenced to at least 3 to 10 years in prison with a fine if he or she kills or injures animals on the list of totally protected species, collects or trades their parts.	cause_general
Illegal trade of totally protected fauna and flora will also be punished under the law.	cause_general
About 284 suspects have been arrested in connection with 140 wildlife crime cases since fiscal year 2016-2017.	cause_general
The wildlife crimes mostly occurred in Yangon, Bago and Ayeyarwaddy regions.	cause_general
The national wildlife enforcement task force, formed in 2016, has been implementing an action plan to combat poaching and illegal trade in cooperation with local and international organizations.	cause_general
According to the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), there exists a big market for illegal wildlife trade in the Golden Triangle area where Myanmar, Laos and Thailand meet and Myanmar has become a trading hub with increasing demand of wildlife products.	distant_evaluation
Meanwhile, Myanmar forest authorities are conducting awareness campaign to stop shops selling wildlife animal souvenirs at pagoda precincts, airports and markets.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Myanmar's Wildlife Protection and Protected Areas Law 1994 was revised and enacted on May 21, 2018.	distant_historical
Elephant conservationist U Kyaw Myint Tun was selected as the monthly gratitude honor to the people in July by Myanmar State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi for his actively participating in wild elephant protection and conservation.	distant_historical
Joining hands with the authorities in protecting wild elephants from being poached, U Kyaw Myint Tun was awarded the Hero of Elephant Conservation by the WWF and the Friends of Wildlife (FOW).	distant_historical
Two poachers were caught in 2016 with arms used to poach wild elephants, and four guns and materials used to kill elephants were seized in 2017 due to his active cooperation with the government.	distant_historical
by Fone Ying Kyu	error
YANGON, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar burnt confiscated ivory and wildlife parts in the capital of Nay Pyi Taw Thursday aiming to combat illegal wildlife trade in the country.	main
The authorities ceremonially destroyed seized wildlife parts, including 277 ivory, 227 elephant and other wildlife bones, 45 pieces of different wildlife skins, 1,544 various horns, 45.5 kg of pangolin scales and 128 varieties of other wildlife parts with total estimated weight of 849.26 kg.	main
The public burning, the first of its kind in Myanmar, sent a clear message that trade in illegal wildlife parts is unacceptable.	distant_evaluation
"Noting that poaching and illegal trade of wildlife in Myanmar have been increasing, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation said in a statement that ""the confiscated items of wildlife were destroyed to raise public awareness for law enforcement on illegal trade of wild fauna and flora, for legal action taken against illegal wildlife, trading and poaching and for promoting international cooperation with Myanmar in fighting the illegal trade in wildlife."""	cause_specific
"""It is crucial to sustainably conserve our country's natural resources including land, water, forest, mountain and wildlife for the sake of our future generation."	distant_evaluation
"We designate and establish protected areas for biodiversity conservation,"" said Minister U Ohn Win at the wildlife parts destruction ceremony."	cause_general
BERLIN, June 8 (Xinhua) -- A refugee suspected of the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl in western Germany has been arrested in Iraq, the German Interior Ministry confirmed on Friday.	main
Susanna F. was a member of Germany's Jewish community who volunteered at the refugee center in Wiesbaden-Erbenheim and reportedly knew the brother of the suspect.	cause_general
After disappearing two weeks ago, police revealed on Thursday that they had found the mutilated body of the 14-year-old and issued a public search warrant for Ali B. as the primary suspect in the case.	cause_general
German police reiterated on Friday that they were still asking people with any knowledge of the case to come forward in order to enhance their understandings of the events which led to the teenager's death.	cause_general
A 35-year-old refugee with Turkish nationality was temporarily taken into custody on suspicion of being involved in the murder but has since been released again.	cause_general
State prosecutors emphasized that no evidence had surfaced prior to Ali B.	cause_general
's airborne escape on May 23 to link him to the disappearance of Susanna F. Only on the following day did a 13-year-old boy living at the same refugee center report to police that the suspect had boasted about committing the crime.	cause_general
The case has provoked widespread outrage in Germany, not least because Ali B. was known to police as being violent and had already been accused of raping an 11-year-old girl living at the same Wiesbaden-Erbenheim refugee center.	distant_evaluation
The suspect was formally denied asylum status at the end of 2016 and subsequently filed an ongoing appeal.	distant_historical
"Carsten Schneider, the German Social Democrats' (SPD) deputy parliamentary faction leader, called for a swift clarification of how the suspect managed to escape and how he could now be placed before a court in Germany ""as fast as possible."""	distant_evaluation
"Free Democratic Party (FDP) leader Christian Lindner further opined in the newspaper BILD that the incident raised the question of ""why rejected asylums seekers are not deported more resolutely."""	distant_evaluation
According to Interior Minister and Christian Social Union (CSU) leader Horst Seehofer, Kurdish security forces seized the 20-year-old Ali B. in northern Iraq.	main
"Seehofer thanked local authorities for their swift assistance in the investigation and said that the German foreign office and police had begun filing a request for the suspect's extradition ""in accordance with international regulations."""	main_consequence
The asylum seeker Ali B. stands accused of having raped and murdered the 14-year-old girl Susanna F. before successfully fleeing with his entire family from the German refugee center in Wiesbaden-Erbenheim to his native country of Iraq.	cause_specific
In the event, airport personnel failed to notice that the names given by the group in Arabic on the boarding tickets for the flights to Iraq via Istanbul did not match the identification papers.	cause_general
Seehofer announced the news of the suspect's subsequent arrest during a hastily-convened press conference in the town of Quedlinburg.	cause_general
"""It is important for me to inform the population that no one can feel safe (from prosecution) anywhere on Earth after this horrible crime thanks to international cooperation"", the CSU leader said."	distant_evaluation
However, a spokesperson for the Wiesbaden state prosecution office noted that Germany has not signed an extradition treaty with Iraq and that it was hence a matter for local judiciary authorities to decide whether or not to fulfil Berlin's request.	distant_expectations_consequences
"An Iraqi trial as an alternative solution is not possible under the German constitution as the crime would ""carry a potential death sentence"" in the suspect's home country."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-01 02:39:55|Editor: yan	error
Terror activities in Egypt have killed hundreds of policemen, soldiers and civilians since the military toppled Morsi in July 2013 in response to mass protests against his one-year rule and his Brotherhood group.	cause_general
The Sinai-based branch of the Islamic State (IS) regional terrorist group claimed responsibility for most of the terror operations in Egypt over the past few years.	cause_general
The Egyptian forces killed hundreds of terrorists and arrested thousands of suspects during the country's anti-terror war declared by President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, the army chief then, following Morsi's ouster.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
CAIRO, July 31 (Xinhua) -- The Egyptian police killed five terrorists of the so-called Hasm group in a shootout during a raid on their hideout in Qalioubiya province north of the capital Cairo, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said in a statement Tuesday.	main
The police said the militants were involved in carrying out several terrorist operations including the murder of a police officer and the assassination attempt of Alexandria security chief.	cause_specific
The five belong to the so-called Hasm group, which the police refer to as the armed wing of the currently outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group of former Islamist President Mohamed Morsi.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the police raided another hiding place in Cairo and arrested five Hasm members and seized a number of machine guns and shotguns in their possession, according to the statement.	cause_general
In late June, the police killed four Hasm militants in a similar raid in Upper Egypt's province of Assiut, saying they were involved in a car bomb attack in March that killed two policemen in the northern province of Alexandria.	cause_general
A day after the blast, which failed to harm Alexandria security chief, the police announced killing six of Hasm militants and said they were also involved in the terror operation.	cause_general
Hasm appeared in late 2016 and claimed responsibility for a number of terrorist attacks that killed policemen in the country.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-25 00:32:47|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
The UN experts also noted that a large number of babies born out of rape have been abandoned in the border town that bore heavy brunt of the war during the wake of the renewed violence in July spreading to the town near the Ugandan border that further led to massive displacements to neighboring countries.	cause_general
They added that the government should move to act on solving the issue of illegal occupation of land and houses in Yei of those returning people that were displaced due to war to avoid reoccurrence of violence over property.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Houses are being occupied by other ethnic groups."	cause_general
"Many feel frustrated at the government's inaction on the return of land and homes to their original owners and I think this is going to be a major challenge in the country as the peace implementation begins to take place,"" said Sooka."	distant_evaluation
There was no immediate comment from the government side.	cause_general
President Salva Kiir, rebel leader Riek Machar and other opposition groups signed the Aug. 5 peace agreement in Khartoum to end over four years of conflict.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
JUBA, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- Members of the UN Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan on Friday said political violence has declined in the country since the recent signing of the peace agreement by warring parties, amid concerns on rising criminality and cattle raiding.	main
The five-member mission that concluded its visit to South Sudan observed in its preliminary report however that there are growing concerns of continued impunity by government troops and militias that splintered from the main rebel group the Sudan People's Liberation Army-in opposition (SPLA-IO).	cause_general
Yasmin Sooka, the head of the mission team, told journalists in Juba that its initial observation from its visits to Wau, Yei and Juba revealed a decline in political violence and an increase in criminality and cattle raiding linked to politics.	main
She noted that the proliferation of armed groups with previous links to SPLA-IO that have splintered into different factions in Yei.	cause_general
The commissioners said humanitarian workers in Yei have been under siege, citing the recent abduction of 10 aid workers on April 27 and killing of a UN peacekeeper on June 26 in an ambush targeting a humanitarian convoy.	cause_general
"""Humanitarian have increasingly come under attack by various armed groups including government soldiers,"" Sooka said."	cause_general
They disclosed that there is complete absence of state action and accountability in Yei for atrocities committed by both the government and armed groups.	cause_specific
HELSINKI, June 15 (Xinhua) -- The suspect of the deadly knife attack that took place in Turku, western Finland last year was sentenced to life in prison for his terrorist offenses, the district court of southwest Finland announced on Friday.	main
His first application was rejected.	distant_historical
He made an appeal and was waiting for the final decision when he launched the attack.	distant_historical
Reports said he was influenced by religious radicalism during the waiting period.	cause_general
(1 euro = 1.16 U.S. dollars)	error
It is the first time that a crime in Finland has been legally classified as terrorist attack, said Finnish national broadcaster Yle.	cause_general
The 23-year-old Moroccan young man Abderrahman Bouanane admitted stabbing to death two women and injuring eight other people at a market square in central Turku.	cause_specific
The trial began in April this year.	cause_general
"The court found the man guilty of two counts of murder with terrorist intent and eight counts of attempted murder with terrorist intent, and decided to give life sentence, stating that the attacks were carried out in ""a premeditated and exceptionally cruel manner""."	cause_specific
In addition to the prison sentence, the court ordered the offender to pay about 450,000 euros of compensation to victims and their families for their sufferings and damages.	cause_general
"The average length of a ""life sentence"" in Finland is over 14 years."	cause_general
A prisoner may be eligible for release after 12 years, while the longest prison term has lasted for 22 years, said Yle.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bouanane arrived in Finland in December 2016 applying for asylum.	distant_historical
MANILA, June 7 (Xinhua) -- The administration of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte vowed on Thursday to intensify its campaign against criminals and illegal drugs.	main
Presidential spokesman Harry Roque told a news conference that Duterte is very much concerned about the rising number of crime incidents in the country, including the recent deaths of two government prosecutors, and the reported increase in the number of holdup cases in the Philippine capital, Metro Manila.	distant_evaluation
Roque said Duterte was especially concerned about the death of a 33-year-old assistant special prosecutor who was stabbed to death on Monday.	distant_evaluation
The victim was five months pregnant when she was killed in broad daylight by a male drug addict.	cause_general
Roque said Duterte believes there is still room for improvement as far as public order and safety are concerned, although recent data would show that crimes in the country declined since he took office.	distant_evaluation
"""The president reiterated that while we have been combating crime and prohibited drugs since day one of his administration, apparently, we can do more,"" Roque said."	distant_evaluation
"Roque's statement came in the wake of Duterte's statement late Tuesday that ""there are simply too many crimes"" in the country."	distant_evaluation
"He even threatened to declare a state of ""national emergency"" and warned criminals that he would ""make radical changes in the days to come."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-04-18 05:36:16|Editor: Chengcheng	error
Last week, Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno traveled to Lima, Peru for a summit, only to turn around and come back after learning the killings of the three.	cause_general
According to Ecuador's Interior Minister Cesar Navas, the rebels sent a proof of life video of the kidnapped couple to the government on Monday night via the social networking app Whatsapp.	cause_general
"""It's the first time that 'Guacho' sends proof of life directly to us through a communications channel, not like on prior occasions when he did it through Colombian media outlets,"" said Navas, calling the rebels ""drug traffickers."""	cause_general
"In the video, ""the drug traffickers request through their kidnap victims that their demands be met,"" he said."	cause_general
The footage shows a man and a woman standing and facing a camera, their hands tied, as an armed rebel wearing a hooded mask stands guard on each side.	cause_general
In the video, the bound couple ask Ecuador's president to comply with their captors' demands so they do not meet the same fate as the journalists.	cause_general
The victims, identified by the government as Oscar Efren Villacis Gomez and Katty Vanesa Velasco Pinargote, are believed to be abducted late Wednesday or early Thursday in the town of San Lorenzo, Esmeraldas.	cause_specific
"Moreno called an emergency meeting of his Public Security Committee to decide ""how to proceed given this new threat,"" said Navas."	cause_general
The dissident rebels are looking to ship their drugs out of Ecuador via the Mataje River, which divides the two countries, said the minister.	cause_general
"Ecuador will resort to ""all the military pressure needed to bring peace again to the border area."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"Ecuador's peace is not to be negotiated with killers,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
QUITO, April 17 (Xinhua) -- Ecuador on Tuesday reported the second kidnapping in less than a month along its border with Colombia, following the killings of three other abductees last week.	main
The latest victims were identified as an Ecuadorian couple abducted by the Oliver Sinisterra front, the same dissident guerrilla group that was behind the previous kidnapping, Ecuadorian Defense Minister Patricio Zambrano said.	cause_specific
"""The information we have... is that they are Ecuadorians from a province close to Esmeraldas,"" Zambrano said in a televised address."	cause_general
"In response to rumors the pair may be members of the military, Zambrano said ""we don't have information that they are agents."""	distant_evaluation
"The dissident group, which broke away from Colombia's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARC) after it signed a peace deal with the government, is headed by Walter Patricio Arizala, also known as ""Guacho,"" who ordered the capture and killing of a press team from Ecuador's El Comercio daily."	cause_general
The abduction of the two journalists and their driver shocked the nation.	distant_evaluation
They were apparently preparing a report on violence and crime in the border region when the rebels seized them in a bid to negotiate an exchange for three of their own who were in custody.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2017-12-20 01:27:49|Editor: Yurou	error
Overnight, troops raided Tamimi's family home and arrested the teenager and her mother.	cause_specific
Hours after the pre-dawn raid, Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman vowed to exact a price from the girl, her family, and her village.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Everyone involved, not only the girl but also her parents and those around them will not escape from what they deserve,"" he told reporters during a tour along the fence between Israel and the Gaza Strip."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Whoever goes wild during the day, will be arrested at night."	distant_evaluation
"This is also an important message,"" Liberman said."	distant_evaluation
The Palestinians struggle against the Israeli occupation of the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip, territories that Israel seized in the 1967 and has held ever since, despite international protest.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Palestinian girl Ahed Tamimi (2nd R) appears at a military court in the Ofer Prison near the West Bank City of Ramallah, on Dec. 20, 2017.	error
The Palestinian girl who was caught on video slapping a soldier in the Israeli-occupied West Bank has been remanded in custody until Thursday, the police said on Tuesday.	error
(Xinhua/Muammar Awad)	error
JERUSALEM, Dec. 19 (Xinhua) -- A Palestinian girl who was caught on video slapping a soldier in the Israeli-occupied West Bank has been remanded in custody until Thursday, the police said on Tuesday.	main
The arrest came in the wake of an incident, in which Ahed Tamimi, 17, and another teenager were seen on a video footage slapping and kicking two heavily-armed Israeli soldiers in the Palestinian village of Nabi Saleh in the central West Bank.	cause_specific
The soldiers remained impassive, without responding to the provocation.	cause_general
The video quickly became viral on social networks and widely broadcast by Israeli media.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-12 00:41:40|Editor: ZX	error
The roads and transport policing command is the largest police unit in Britain, made up of more than 2,300 police and community support officers.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the London Assembly police and crime committee is currently investigating how violence across London can be reduced.	cause_general
New analysis at city hall shows that so far this year domestic violence is just as much an issue as other types of violence.	distant_evaluation
Of the 100 cases, 38 homicides happened in the street and 35 in the home.	cause_general
Ten killings involved a gun and 59 involved a knife, with half of the victims aged under 25.	cause_general
"Police and crime committee chairman Steve O'Connell said: ""The overwhelming use of knives in these killings presents a severe challenge to the police and our community...We must take a long hard look at the causes of violence in all its forms."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
LONDON, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- London Mayor Sadiq Khan and Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick announced Tuesday they were adding an extra 122 police officers to a violent crime task force to crack down on knife attacks in the British capital.	main
The move comes just days after the London Assembly said an investigation into serious crime was being started as figures revealed there have been 100 homicides so far this year in the capital.	cause_general
The extra officers will temporarily move from the Met's roads and transport policing command and will be ready to start next Monday as part of an elite team tasked with making arrests and taking weapons off the streets in the areas of London with the highest concentrations of knife and other forms of violent crime.	distant_expectations_consequences
The task force, originally launched in April, has so far made 895 arrests, carried out 1,400 weapons sweeps, removing 212 knives and nearly 200 offensive weapons from the streets of London.	cause_general
"Khan said: ""The level of violent crime in London is unacceptably high."	distant_evaluation
"As well as setting up the new dedicated violent crime task force to focus on the areas worst affected, I'm bringing together the Met Police with local councils, charities, community groups and others to work on a public health approach to tackling knife crime."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The causes of violent crime are extremely complex, and involve culture, community, gangs, drugs, poverty, and a lack of opportunities and have been made much worse by the government's huge cuts to the Metropolitan Police and youth services across our city, resulting in police numbers falling to the lowest level in 20 years."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-04 12:27:06|Editor: xuxin	error
According to police, the militants holed up in a house inside an orchard fired upon the contingents of police and army.	cause_general
The area was cordoned off on specific intelligence inputs suggesting presence of militants, police said.	cause_specific
Officials said Indian army and police have not suffered any casualties in the stand-off.	cause_general
The identity of slain militants was being ascertained.	cause_general
However, police said they were affiliated with Lashkar-e-Toiba.	cause_general
"""The search operation is still underway in the area,"" a police official said."	cause_general
Two militants and an Indian army trooper were killed on Friday in a similar gunfight in Sopore of Baramulla district.	cause_general
Militant groups opposing New Delhi's rule have been engaged in a guerrilla war with Indian troops in the region since 1989.	cause_general
Gunfight between the two sides takes place intermittently.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
People shout as they participate in the funeral of a militant in Malikgund village, some 65km south of Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, Aug. 4, 2018.	error
Five militants and a civilian were killed Saturday in a fierce gunfight and subsequent clashes in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, officials said.	error
(Xinhua/Javed Dar)	error
SRINAGAR, Indian-controlled Kashmir, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) -- Five militants were killed on Saturday in an ongoing fierce gunfight with contingents of government forces in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, officials said.	main
The gunfight broke out Friday night in village Kiloora of Shopian district, about 57 km south of Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir.	cause_general
"""In a fierce gunfight in Shopian, five militants have been killed,"" Indian army spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia told Xinhua."	main
"""One militant was killed during night and four others were killed in the morning during the fresh exchange of fire."""	main
HANOI, June 29 (Xinhua) -- During a two-day raid in Vietnam's northern Son La province, police killed two kingpins of a ring which trafficked large amounts of heroin from Laos to Vietnam, local media reported on Friday.	main
One of the traffickers opened fire vigorously, injuring two border guard officers, and then escaping to a jungle.	cause_specific
The other trafficker, Vu Ba Xenh, a 39-year-old teacher of a primary school in the district, was arrested, and then he confessed that they transported drugs from Laos to Vietnam.	cause_general
The border guards confiscated 20 cakes of heroin, seven kilos of methamphetamine, 12,000 pills of synthetic drugs, one handgun and 15 bullets.	cause_general
According to Vietnamese law, those convicted of smuggling over 600 grams of heroin or more than 2.5 kilos of methamphetamine are punishable by death.	cause_general
Making or trading 100 grams of heroin or 300 grams of other illegal drugs also faces death penalty.	cause_general
During the raid from Wednesday to Thursday with the presence of nearly 300 police officers with many armoured vehicles and telecommunications signal-jamming equipment, the two kingpins, Nguyen Thanh Tuan, 34, and Nguyen Van Thuan, 35, were killed in gunfire, after they refused to surrender and opened fire to the officers, online newspaper VnExpress reported.	main
After the two men died at their den in Van Ho district, three of their underlings surrendered.	main_consequence
Local police confiscated three grenades, four military guns, 415 bullets and many gas cylinders at the den which was fortified with bullet-proof bunkers, explosives and high-power riffles.	cause_general
According to Vietnamese investigators, Tuan, born in Hanoi, established new drug trafficking rings after old ones were busted by local police.	cause_general
He never showed up at drug transactions, just using phones to run many rings from distance in the last 10 years.	cause_general
In 2015, Tuan escaped after one of his rings' members was arrested when transporting and hiding a total 490 cakes of heroin weighing over 170 kilograms in Hanoi.	distant_historical
According to investigators, by 2015, his rings had trafficked nearly 1,200 cakes of heroin.	distant_historical
On Thursday, border guards of central Nghe An province conducted a raid in Ky Son district, trying to arrest two local drug traffickers, Voice of Vietnam reported.	cause_specific
SRINAGAR, Indian-controlled Kashmir, April 27 (Xinhua) -- A villager killed a leopard to save his family including children Friday in Indian-controlled Kashmir, officials said.	main
However, the human presence makes them insecure, following which they resort to attacking people.	distant_evaluation
At times these creatures are attacked by scared villagers in retaliation which also proves fatal for them.	distant_evaluation
Wildlife experts said mass urbanization, denudation of forests, encroachment of forestland, vanishing of buffer zones in the forests and extraction of medicinal plants are some of the reasons responsible for increasing conflicts between humans and animals.	distant_evaluation
The clash between the big cat and man took place at Awoora village of Kupwara district, about 110 km northwest of Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir.	cause_general
"""This morning at around 5:00 a.m. (local time) a leopard which ventured into village Awoora entered house of Ghulam Ahmad Sheikh, who in a bid to save lives of family members attacked the wild animal apprehending it would kill the inmates,"" a wildlife department official quoting family members said."	cause_specific
"""During the clash the big cat was killed as Sheikh suffered critical injuries."""	main
Sheikh according to forest officials was referred to Srinagar for specialized treatment.	main_consequence
Following the incident police and wildlife department officials were intimated, who reached the spot to take away carcass of the leopard.	cause_general
According to wildlife officials, a case has been registered into the incident and investigation would soon be carried out to ascertain the actual details.	cause_general
There are strict laws in force in India against the killing of wild animals.	cause_general
Wildlife officials said leopards stray into residential areas usually in search of food.	distant_evaluation
MOGADISHU, June 5 (Xinhua) -- At least ten al-Shabab fighters were killed and one fighter arrested after fierce fighting between the Somali National Army (SNA) and the militants early Tuesday in Bardhere town, southern part of the Horn of Africa nation.	main
SNA Commander for the 10th Sector, Osman Sheikh Abdi, told reporters that they lost one soldier and three others were injured during the dawn attack which was foiled in Bardhere town in Gedo region.	cause_general
"""The Somali National Army killed 10 al-Shabab fighters and captured another one alive after launching an ambush on Tuesday morning."	main
"The attack was foiled and the army killed ten of them,"" Abdi said."	cause_general
Independent sources said the insurgents had attempted to overrun the Bardhere military base but failed to succeed in carrying out the terrorist attack.	cause_general
The fighting took place near the main bridge at the entrance of Bardhere town and the fighting took several hours and ended at around 6 a.m.	cause_general
He said many residents were asleep when the fighting took place.	distant_evaluation
The Somali militants claimed they inflicted heavy losses on the government forces in the latest fighting in the Bardhere town in the southern region.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-02 06:21:15|Editor: ZX	error
"Bahceli openly advocated ultra-nationalist Cakici's release, calling him a ""hero."""	distant_evaluation
On May 13, Erdogan turned down the amnesty request although both parties were in an alliance for June 24 parliament and presidential elections.	cause_general
The MHP said the current bill will relieve pressure on overcrowded jails and release those imprisoned by politically-influenced judges.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The physical conditions of prisons are pretty insufficient."	distant_evaluation
Occupancy rates are causing violation of human rights for people there.	distant_evaluation
"The capacity of 449 prisons is 211,274,"" the MHP deputy chair Feti Yildiz said."	cause_general
As of Sept. 21, 253,535 people were recorded to have be imprisoned, Yildiz said, adding that the health of prisoners deteriorates and it becomes harder to live with dignity and self-respect.	distant_evaluation
The nationalist party has recently mounted its calls for a general pardon since the ruling AKP and MHP are approaching another possible alliance in upcoming local elections scheduled for March 2019.	cause_specific
Turkey's president and the ruling party leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan are not keen on amnesty, but did not ruled out a pardon to prisoners as the two parties are on the eve of alliance talks.	distant_evaluation
Erdogan said on Sept. 23 that their principle was to grant amnesty only to convicts who committed crimes against the state, and crimes against individuals are not covered.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
The AKP cannot ignore a proposal by an ally party in the election, AKP's Deputy Chairman Hayati Yazici said last week.	distant_evaluation
"He noted that the bill should be carefully evaluated ""without any ulterior motives, taking into account its effects on the society, the fight against crime, the judiciary and the perception of justice."""	distant_evaluation
The AKP is not enthusiastic with the amnesty proposal but the ruling party does not want to harm the possible alliance, said Emine Kaplan, a journalist covering parliament affairs at daily Cumhuriyet.	distant_evaluation
However, Bahri Ozturk, dean of Istanbul Culture University Faculty of Law, warns that a general pardon will undermine the authority of law and cause long-term problems within society, as this will be a political decision made from populist ideas rather than legal reasons.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""An amnesty has never been a solution to problems in Turkey."	distant_evaluation
"Those released were convicted again over similar charges after previous amnesties in the country,"" he noted."	distant_evaluation
ANKARA, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- Turkey's nationalist party has been urging its election ally ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) for an amnesty that will pardon more than 160,000 prisoners including a notorious mafia leader.	main
According to party officials, the amnesty covers crimes committed before May 19 and will be subject to one-off 5 years conditional reduced sentence, thus paving the way for the release of 162,989 people.	cause_general
The idea of an amnesty first came to public attention in May, ahead of June 24 Turkish parliament elections, as part of the election campaign of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP).	distant_historical
The nationalist party's leader Devlet Bahceli paid a visit in May to Alaattin Cakici, a ringleader of the Turkish underworld, after Cakici was taken from prison, where he is serving his time, to a hospital after the general amnesty was suggested.	distant_historical
The kingpin was convicted of several crimes including leading a crime syndicate to gain profit and instigate murder.	distant_historical
Cakici is affiliated with nationalist circles and was first arrested after the 1980 coup which tried to link the murder of 41 people to the MHP and a number of nationalist organizations.	cause_general
Local media said he had been working for Turkey's National Intelligence Organization abroad at the time.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-15 23:00:04|Editor: yan	error
Video Player Close	error
BAGHDAD, Aug. 15 (Xinhua) -- Iraqi security forces killed two Islamic State (IS) suicide bombers and wounded another on Wednesday in an operation in Iraq's central province of Salahudin, the Iraqi military said.	main
Acting on intelligence reports, troops from Samarra Operations Command surrounded three IS militants in the early morning in the rugged area of al-Siefonah in eastern Samarra, some 120 km north of Iraq's capital Baghdad, Yahya Rasoul, spokesman of the Iraqi Joint Operations Command, said in a statement.	cause_general
The troops opened fire on the three militants, killing two of them and wounded the third, and seized an explosive belt, 15 hand grenades and two AK-47 assault rifles, the statement said.	main
The search for IS hideouts and militants in the surrounding area is still underway, it added.	cause_general
The key cities of Salahudin Province, including Tikrit, located some 170 km north of Baghdad, were captured by IS militants in June 2014, but the Iraqi security forces have freed the province during major anti-IS offensives.	distant_historical
On Dec. 9, 2017, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi officially declared full liberation of Iraq from the IS after Iraqi forces recaptured all the areas once seized by the extremist group.	distant_historical
However, IS remnants regrouped in desert and rugged areas, carrying out attacks against security forces and civilians despite operations from time to time to hunt them down.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-13 19:18:30|Editor: xuxin	error
Meanwhile, the security forces killed hundreds of terrorists and arrested thousands of suspects during the country's anti-terror war.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
CAIRO, Aug. 13 (Xinhua) -- Egyptian security forces on Monday killed six terrorists during security raids in Sixth of October city, south of the capital Cairo.	main
The Egyptian Interior Ministry said in a statement that the national security agency received information that a terrorist cell is taking a shelter in an apartment in Sixth of October city.	cause_specific
According to the information, the terrorist cell is planning a series of hostile attacks to target some vital installations, places of worship, police and army personnel during the upcoming al-Adha feast celebrations.	cause_specific
Police raided the apartment and killed six terrorists in a shootout, the statement said, adding that three of the terrorists were identified.	main
Three machine guns, a birdshot rifle and bullets were seized during the raid.	cause_general
Egypt has been fighting a wave of terrorism that killed hundreds of policemen and soldiers, as well as civilians, since the military removed former Islamist President Mohamed Morsi in July 2013 in response to mass protests against his one-year rule and his currently outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group.	cause_general
A Sinai-based group loyal to the regional Islamic State terrorist group claimed responsibility for most of the terrorist attacks in Egypt over the past few years.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-01-15 20:31:24|Editor: pengying	error
"We are waiting for the clashes to stop and for the airport to be secure again to resume air traffic,"" al-Ain told Xinhua, pointing out that flights have been temporarily transferred to the airport of Misurata city, some 250 km east Tripoli."	distant_expectations_consequences
The M'eiga International Airport of Tripoli witnessed frequent clashes and armed attacks, most recently in October 2017.	distant_historical
However, Monday's attack is the most violent one the airport has witnessed so far, as gunmen attacked the air hub and the prison inside it, where hundreds of terrorists have been detained over the past few years.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
TRIPOLI, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- An armed group on Monday attacked Tripoli International Airport of Libya with heavy weapons, killing three people and injuring several others.	main
"""The criminal militia known as Bashir al-Baqarah and all the criminals wanted by the Deterrent Force attacked the International Airport after escaping (jail) and joining the militia,"" the Special Deterrent Force in charge of securing the airport said in a statement on its official Facebook page."	main
"The force noted that the attackers are being dealt with ""until they are defeated and expelled from the M'etiga airport and the prison, where more than 2,500 inmates are detained on various charges."""	distant_expectations_consequences
The force posted images of tanks deployed around the airport.	cause_general
The head of the field hospital of Tripoli confirmed that three people were killed and several others were injured by the clashes.	main_consequence
The head of the Civil Aviation Authority, Nasr-Addin Shayeb al-Ain said the airport has been temporarily closed for security reasons.	main_consequence
"""The closure of the airport was because of the ongoing clashes."	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-14 19:10:06|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
ISTANBUL, Dec. 14 (Xinhua) -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday that some persons close to Saudi Arabia's crown prince assumed an active role in the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
"""We understand from the voice recordings that those closest to the crown prince had an active role in Khashoggi's killing,"" Erdogan said at a conference in Istanbul."	main
The previous day, the U.S. Senate approved a resolution holding Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud responsible for the murder of Khashoggi.	cause_general
"Speaking about the resolution, Erdogan said there would be more developments about the issue as ""Turkey submitted all the information to Americans."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Erdogan also stressed that his country would continue to chase the issue until the end to reveal the naked truth behind the murder.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to the Istanbul prosecutor, Khashoggi was strangled to death after he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2 and his body was then dismembered and destroyed.	cause_specific
Earlier this month, Istanbul's chief prosecutor issued arrest warrants for two Saudi suspects, identified as former deputy head of Saudi intelligence and a former aide to the Saudi crown prince, over the killing of Khashoggi.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-13 13:58:25|Editor: Yang Yi	error
Ochoa struck the victim with a metal bat before he ran away.	distant_historical
Andrew Garcia, another defendant in the case, eventually caught up to Ji and hit him repeatedly with the bat.	distant_historical
Ji made his way back to his apartment where he was found dead hours later by a roommate.	distant_historical
In August 2017, Garcia was sentenced to life in prison without parole after jurors found him guilty of one count each of first-degree murder, robbery, attempted robbery and assault with a deadly weapon.	distant_historical
Jonathan Del Carmen, who was also a member of the group, pleaded guilty last year to one count of second-degree murder, and another suspected attacker, named Alejandra Guerrero, was convicted in October 2016 of one count each of first-degree murder, robbery, attempted robbery and assault with a deadly weapon.	distant_historical
Del Carmen was sentenced to 15 years to life in state prison, while Guerrero was sentenced to life in prison without parole.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
LOS ANGELES, Dec.12 (Xinhua) -- A 21-year-old suspect was convicted on Wednesday of first-degree murder and other charges for his role in the 2014 murder of Xinran Ji, a Chinese graduate student at the University of Southern California.	main
The jurors handed down the verdict after about two hours of deliberation, convicting Alberto Ochoa of one count each of first-degree murder, assault with a deadly weapon, second-degree robbery and attempted second-degree robbery.	main
Ochoa, who faces life in prison without parole, will be sentenced on March 8 next year, though he is entitled to a parole hearing after spending 25 years behind bars under California state law given his age at the time of the crimes.	cause_general
"""We're very satisfied with the outcome of this case,"" Deputy District Attorney John McKinney told reporters outside court after the verdict."	distant_evaluation
"""We believe the jury listened to the evidence, followed the law, returned the proper verdict."	distant_evaluation
"The greatest satisfaction, though, is for whatever closure and peace there is for Ji's family back in China, who have been following these proceedings,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Ochoa and three others confronted 24-year-old Xinran Ji, who was walking home from a study group near the university campus early on July 24, 2014.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-08 08:01:07|Editor: mmm	error
"""Fields' vehicle stopped only when it struck another vehicle ..."	distant_historical
"He then rapidly reversed his vehicle and fled the scene."""	distant_historical
said the indictment.	distant_historical
He faces six potential life sentences for the murder conviction when sentencing begins Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 (Xinhua) -- A U.S. white nationalist who drove a car into a group of peaceful counterprotesters against a ""Unite the Right"" rally in Charlottesville, Virginia last year was found guilty on Friday of first-degree murder."	main
James Alex Fields, Jr., a 21-year-old Nazi sympathizer from Maumee, Ohio, plowed his car into the crowd, killing 32-year-old paralegal Heather Heyer while injuring nearly 20 others in August last year.	distant_historical
A jury in Charlottesville also found Fields guilty of five counts of aggravated malicious wounding, three of malicious wounding, and one hit-and-run count.	main
The jury deliberated for seven hours before convicting Fields, according to local media reports.	cause_general
"Federal prosecutors described Fields as a Nazi sympathizer who has advocated violence against blacks and Jews on social media and who participated in chants promoting white supremacy and racist views during the ""Unite the Right rally."""	cause_general
After the rally was dispersed, Fields drove to where the counterprotest was taking place in downtown Charlottesville and backed up to the top of a hill, said the indictment.	distant_historical
"""Fields then rapidly accelerated, ran through a stop sign and across a raised pedestrian mall, and drove directly into the crowd, striking numerous individuals, killing Heather Heyer, and injuring many others,"" the indictment said."	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-30 02:24:11|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
"Those responsible for Mr. Khashoggi's death must be held to account and must face justice,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
Freeland said Canada is currently reviewing its sale of light armored vehicles to Saudi Arabia, and as that review is ongoing, no new arms permits are being issued.	cause_general
She said that Canadian security officials have been in direct contact with Turkey regarding its investigation, information has been shared, and that the director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service has been to Turkey.	cause_general
"""We believe that in naming people and in saying in the view of the government of Canada that someone is responsible for something so serious and so odious, it's very important to gather all the facts."	distant_evaluation
"It's very important to act and to speak only on the basis of real certainty,"" said the Canadian minister."	distant_evaluation
Khashoggi has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities said Khashoggi died in a ""brawl"" in its consulate."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 Saudis were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
The U.S. Treasury imposed sanctions on 17 individuals over their alleged roles in the killing of Khashoggi last week, following U.S. State Department's decision in late October to revoke 21 Saudi suspects' visas.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
OTTAWA, Nov. 29 (Xinhua) -- Canada on Thursday announced sanctions targeting 17 Saudi nationals linked to the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
"In an initial written statement, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said Khashoggi's killing was ""abhorrent and represents an unconscionable attack on the freedom of expression of all individuals"" and the sanctions were aimed at people ""responsible for or complicit in"" Khashoggi's death."	distant_evaluation
The 17 individuals will not be able to enter Canada and will have any assets they may have in the country frozen.	main_consequence
U.S. intelligence officials have said that the murder was carried out by agents of the Saudi government and ordered by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.	cause_specific
"Freeland said Canada had a responsibility to react, calling Khashoggi's murder ""vile"" and ""premeditated,"" adding that to date, Saudi Arabia's explanation lacks consistency and credibility."	distant_evaluation
"""We continue to call for a credible and independent international investigation."	distant_evaluation
This case is not closed.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-29 22:04:54|Editor: xuxin	error
He and his fiancee were murdered in their house in Velka Maca (Trnava region) on February 21, 2018 with gunshots from a 9 mm pistol.	distant_historical
The double murder provoked mass protests across the country, eventually leading to the resignations of then prime minister Robert Fico along with several other cabinet ministers and state officials.	cause_general
A total of eight suspects were detained during a police raid in Kolarovo (Nitra region) on Thursday.	cause_specific
As many as 55 elite police officers were engaged in the police raid that lasted the whole Thursday.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BRATISLAVA, Sept.29 (Xinhua) -- Three people has been accused of a serious crime of premeditated murder and other crimes in case of murders of investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancee Martina Kusnirova, Slovak Prosecutor-General's Office spokesperson Andrea Predajnova confirmed on Saturday.	main
Originally, eight suspects were detained.	cause_general
"""After their hearing, five persons were released, while charges were pressed against three persons, identified for legal reasons only as T.S., M.M."	cause_general
and Z.A.	cause_general
No more information can be released at the moment.	cause_general
"The Prosecutor's Office will provide more details in upcoming days,"" stressed Predajnova."	distant_expectations_consequences
Jan Kuciak was an investigative journalist working for news website Aktuality.sk.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-24 04:50:25|Editor: yan	error
At least 251 people were killed and over 2,200 people were injured in the coup attempt.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
ANKARA, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- Turkish prosecutors have charged 28 suspects, including U.S.-based cleric Fetullah Gulen, over assassination of Russian Ambassador to Turkey Andrey Karlov, Anadolu Agency reported on Friday.	main
Andrey Karlov was shot dead by an off-duty Turkish police officer Mevlut Mert Altintas at the opening of an art gallery exhibition in Ankara on Dec. 19, 2016.	cause_specific
Turkish prosecutors have completed two-year investigation into the assassination of Russian envoy and submitted the indictment to an Ankara court.	cause_general
"The indictment says the assassination ""is an act of provocation targeting Turkey-Russia relations."""	distant_evaluation
According to the indictment, the murderer previously planned to kill the ambassador at a dinner for ambassadors hosted by the ruling party on June 27, 2016, but the assassination attempt failed as Karlov was abroad on that day.	distant_evaluation
A total of eight people were arrested as part of the investigation, including four former police officers.	distant_historical
Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based preacher, is accused by Ankara of orchestrating a failed coup attempt on July 15, 2016.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-05 17:44:36|Editor: mym	error
Video Player Close	error
ISTANBUL, Dec. 5 (Xinhua) -- Istanbul's chief prosecutor on Wednesday issued arrest warrants for two Saudi Arabian citizens over the killing of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a local newspaper reported.	main
The Hurriyet daily identified the suspects as former deputy head of Saudi intelligence General Ahmed Asiri and Saud al-Qahtani, a former aide to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud.	main
"The chief prosecutor said in a statement that there is a ""strong suspicion that Asiri and al-Qahtani were among planners of Khashoggi's killing,"" the daily said."	distant_evaluation
According to the Istanbul prosecutor, Khashoggi was strangled to death after he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2 and his body was then dismembered and destroyed.	cause_specific
"The Saudi public prosecutor has demanded ""death penalty"" against five of the suspects implicated in the murder of Khashoggi."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-17 03:06:02|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Then the murderer managed to escape and was never caught.	cause_specific
According to the indictments, the murderer's mother knew that her son had a weapon and trained with it.	cause_specific
According to the prosecution, two weeks prior to the attack, the murderer told his mother of his intentions to commit it.	cause_specific
The mother also informed the brother of these details, but the two failed to act to prevent the attack, as alleged in the indictment.	cause_specific
In addition, the brother is indicted of trying to hide the records of their home's security cameras after the attack.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
"JERUSALEM, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- Israeli military prosecution filed indictments against the mother and brother of a Palestinian who ""carried out a murderous attack"" in a factory, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) reported on Friday."	main
The two are indicted of not preventing the murder which killed two Israelis.	main
The incident took place on Oct. 7 in the Barkan Industrial Zone, a settlement industrial compound in the northern Israeli-occupied West Bank, where Israelis and Palestinians work side by side.	cause_specific
According to eyewitnesses, the killer, 23-year-old Ashraf Na'alowa, took plastic restraints from the factory warehouse, saying that he needed them to fix an electrical problem.	cause_specific
After fixing, he took his rifle, went up to the second floor, and forced a Palestinian cleaner to tie an Israeli worker with the restraints.	cause_specific
Then he shot and killed her.	cause_specific
Another Israeli worker was also shot dead after trying to escape.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-25 20:52:07|Editor: mym	error
Former public prosecutor Hisham Barakat died of his injuries after a car-bomb attack in Cairo on June 29, 2015.	distant_historical
"A group, calling itself ""the Giza Popular Resistance,"" claimed responsibility for the attack."	distant_historical
Barakat was appointed as chief prosecutor following the ouster of Islamist President Mohamed Morsi in 2013.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
CAIRO, Nov. 25 (Xinhua) -- An Egyptian court on Sunday confirmed death sentence against 10 defendants over killing former public prosecutor in a bomb attack on his car in 2015, state-run Ahram newspapers reported on its website.	main
The defendants were convicted of premeditated murder, association with a terrorist organization, and possessing weapons and explosives.	cause_specific
The Court of Cassation, Egypt's top court that gives final verdicts, reduced death sentence to life in prison (which is 25 years in Egypt) for six others who have been charged in the same case after receiving the decision of the Grand Mufti.	main
The Grand Mufti, the country's interpreter of religious law, is the country's highest Islamic official who gives religious judgment of all preliminary death sentences.	cause_general
The Mufti's opinion is non-binding as it is usually considered a formality, but it could alleviate the sentences in some cases and the top court could take it.	cause_general
The court also confirmed that 46 defendants have been listed as terrorists over the same charges.	main
A total of 38 were sentenced to 10 to 15 years in prison over possession of weapons.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-20 23:43:44|Editor: yan	error
He is a section chief officer who was returning from his night shift at 5:30 a.m. local time, said local official Philippe Close.	cause_general
Two of his colleagues immediately intervened to neutralize the assailant.	cause_general
The policeman has been taken to hospital and is expected to survive these injuries.	cause_general
"""The police are once again the victim of a cowardly attack, the prosecution is investigating the case,"" said Belgian Interior Minister Jan Jambon."	distant_evaluation
He also confirmed that the individual had never been arrested before for acts related to terrorism.	cause_general
An investigation on whether the attack is linked to terrorism is going on.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BRUSSELS, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- A man recently released from prison attacked a police officer with a knife on Tuesday morning in front of the Brussels-City police station.	main
The wounded has been taken to hospital.	cause_general
"Witnesses claimed they heard the man shout ""Allahu Akbar"" (""God is great""), according to a statement from Ine Van Wymersch, spokesperson for the prosecution of Brussels."	cause_general
The attacker Issam T. was sentenced to eight years in prison in 2011 for his involvement in several robberies committed in the region of Walloon Brabant.	distant_historical
In 2014, he was charged with attempted murder while serving his sentence in prison.	distant_historical
In October, he was released from prison despite pressure from the prosecutor.	cause_specific
The police officer received two knife wounds to the throat.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-28 00:46:16|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
A BVB player as well as a policeman, who was supposed to escort the bus on a motorcycle, were injured in the attack.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
BERLIN, Nov. 27 (Xinhua) -- Sergej W., defendant in the case of the bomb attack on the team bus of the German soccer club Borussia Dortmund (BVB), was sentenced to 14 years in prison on Tuesday.	main
According to the regional court in the German city of Dortmund, the 29-year-old ignited three explosive devices on April 11, 2017 during the departure of the BVB team bus to the Champions League match against AS Monaco.	distant_historical
The court ruled that his aim was to kill BVB soccer players to cause BVB share prices on the German stock exchange to crash.	cause_general
He was found guilty of attempted murder in 28 cases.	cause_specific
The defendant confessed to have built and detonated the bombs, but he would not have intended to kill anyone.	cause_specific
He claimed that the only purpose of the attack was to spread fear and terror.	distant_evaluation
"He had bet on a fall of stock prices of BVB shares and had hoped for a profit of ""a few tens of thousands of euros""."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-14 20:50:30|Editor: xuxin	error
"""At this point, seven people have been put in police custody."	cause_general
"Four members of his family have been detained since Tuesday and three members of his close circle,"" Heitz said."	cause_general
The 29-year-old man had been on police watchlist as he developed radical religious tendencies while he was in jail.	cause_general
He had been convicted several times in France, Germany and Switzerland for common law offenses, including violence and robberies.	distant_historical
"A statement released Thursday on the Islamic State (IS) website claimed that Chekatt is one of its soldiers who ""carried out the operation in response to calls for targeting citizens of coalition countries."""	cause_general
"Attending the reopening of the Christmas market in Strasbourg on Friday, Interior Minister Christophe Castaner described the terrorist group's claim as ""totally opportunistic""."	distant_evaluation
"Prior to that, Castaner told Europe 1 radio ""nothing indicates that (Chekatt) was part of a network."	distant_evaluation
"There is nothing to suggest that he was being protected by such, but the investigation is not yet over."""	distant_evaluation
Following the assault on Tuesday, France has raised its security threat level to the highest and poured additional 1,800 security forces across its cities to guarantee security in Christmas markets and for year-end holidays.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
PARIS, Dec. 14 (Xinhua) -- French investigators were working to determine whether the gunman who attacked people in Strasbourg Christmas market acted alone or with accomplices, Paris prosecutor Remy Heitz said on Friday.	main
"""The investigation will continue to identify possible accomplices who may had helped him or encouraged him to commit his crime,"" Heitz told reporters."	main
"""We are now reconstructing the events of last 48 hours to see if he had benefited from any support,"" he added."	main
On Tuesday evening, a man armed with a firearm and a knife, opened fire several times and stabbed people in Place Kleber and the Grand'Rue, one of the French city's main shopping streets where Christmas market is held every year.	cause_specific
Three people were killed and one victim was brain-dead.	cause_specific
A total of 12 passers-by were wounded, one still fighting for his life, according to Paris prosecutor.	cause_specific
The shooter, identified as Cherif Chekatt, has been killed, on Thursday evening, 48 hours after the attack, in the Neudorf-Meinau district of the city, two kilometers from where he targeted people near the Christmas market.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-11 05:22:54|Editor: yan	error
The kidnapping occurred in June 2008.	distant_historical
With the capture of several accomplices in the months following Conti's kidnapping, it was revealed that Ortiz had ordered the killing of the 53-year-old Italian whose body was buried in a clandestine grave.	distant_historical
The Mexican government has attributed numerous violent episodes to the Zetas in the past decade, including the 2011 killing of 72 migrants from various countries who were crossing the Mexican state of Tamaulipas on their way to the U.S. border.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- A federal judge sentenced an alleged leader of the organized crime group the Zetas to 283 years in prison for the kidnapping of six people, the federal government said on Monday.	main
"Jose Ortiz, who went by the alias ""Buitre,"" has been in jail since July 2009 when federal agents detained him and another member of the organization in Oaxaca where the group operates."	cause_general
They were being held on suspicion of kidnapping and other illegal acts.	cause_general
The office of the Attorney General of Mexico (PGR) said the judge sentenced him on charges of organized crime, kidnapping and for carrying a firearm.	cause_general
Officers with the deputy attorney general's office specializing in the investigation of organized crime, presented sufficient evidence during the trial to get the prison sentence in connection with the six kidnapping cases, the PGR said in a statement.	cause_specific
Ruben Raul Perez, the other person arrested at the same time as Ortiz, was sentenced to 77 years in prison on the same counts related to a single kidnapping.	cause_general
In 2008, the federal police said that Ortiz and his people were allegedly responsible for the kidnapping of Claudio Conti, an Italian living in the seaside resort of Puerto Escondido.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-12 16:07:34|Editor: xuxin	error
Since Israel seized the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in 1967, it has demolished hundreds of Palestinian homes as a punitive measure aimed at deterring Palestinians from carrying out attacks against Israelis.	cause_general
In early 2005, an army committee concluded that the measure is ineffective, and Israel halted it.	distant_historical
However, the government renewed the controversial practice in 2015 in the wake of the wave of street attacks.	distant_historical
"The demolitions were denounced by the international community as ""counterproductive"" and Palestinians and human rights organizations say it constitutes an unlawful collective punishment that leaves the relatives homeless."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
JERUSALEM, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- Israel's army said Wednesday it made preparations for the demolition of the family homes of two Palestinian perpetrators of a 2016 shooting after their homes had been demolished and rebuilt.	main
The troops surveyed overnight the family homes of the assailants, who carried out a deadly shooting attack in Sarona Market, a recreation compound in Tel Aviv.	cause_general
"A military spokesperson said in a statement that the residences were rebuilt without a permit after they were demolished in August 2016 by Israel Defense Forces following an order issued by the Commander of the Central Command."""	cause_general
"""At the moment, the option to demolish the residences again is being examined,"" the statement read."	main
In June 2016, Khalid al-Muhamra and Muhammad Ahmad Moussa Mahmara, cousins from the town of Yatta in the Hebron area in the southern West Bank, opened fire inside a restaurant in Sarona Market, killing three people and wounding others.	distant_historical
A fourth woman died of heart attack amidst the attack.	distant_historical
An Israeli court convicted them with murder and sentenced them to four life sentences and sixty years.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-24 07:55:53|Editor: mym	error
"""The secessionist activist Eric Tataw based in the United States of America promised to kill any foreigner found in the Northwest and Southwest regions so as to draw the attention of the international community which has not paid any attention to the crisis."""	distant_evaluation
Assomo said and called on foreigners to notify government forces before traveling to the troubled regions.	distant_evaluation
Ondari was shot dead just about three weeks after an American missionary was killed in a crossfire in the restive Anglophone region of Northwest.	cause_specific
"Fighting between government forces and armed separatist groups has been ongoing since October 2017 after the separatists declared the independence of a nation called ""Ambazonia"" in the two English-speaking regions of Northwest and Southwest."	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
YAOUNDE, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- Cameroon army said Friday that it did not kill a Kenyan priest in Kembong, a locality in Southwest, one of the two war-torn English-speaking regions of the country.	main
"""The preliminary investigations reveal that the authors of this criminal act did this to discredit the defense and security forces."""	main
Joseph Beti Assomo, Cameroon's Defense Minister said in a statement on Friday.	main
Rev.	cause_specific
"Father Cosmas Omboto Ondari, 33-year-old Kenya priest who was ordained in 2017 and immediately posted to Cameroon, was shot in front of the church of the Parish of St. Martin of Tours in Kembong ""by government soldiers who were shooting at random from passing vehicle,"" according to an earlier version of the story by Andrew Nkea, Bishop of Mamfe Diocese where Ondari worked."	cause_specific
But Assomo said the information was false and blamed armed separatists for the death of the priest.	distant_evaluation
"He said they ""opened fire"" at the priest several times."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-29 00:32:28|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Video Player Close	error
MOGADISHU, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- The United States military said Wednesday it killed three al-Shabab militants in central Somalia.	main
The U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM) said the strike, in the vicinity of Quy Cad near Debatscile, was conducted on Tuesday to keep pressure on the militant group and help provide Somali forces time and space to develop their independent capability to protect the people of Somalia.	cause_specific
"""We currently assess this airstrike did not injure or kill any civilians,"" said AFRICOM, which has conducted more than 30 airstrikes against al-Shabab in 2018."	distant_evaluation
Gregg P. Olson, director of operations at AFRICOM, vowed to continue working with Somali, AMISOM (the African Union Mission in Somalia) and other international partners to grow and develop Somali security forces.	cause_general
"""As part of that effort, we conduct precision strikes to foil terrorist plans, kill al-Shabab terrorists and reduce the enemy's freedom of maneuver,"" Olson said in a statement."	distant_evaluation
"""In contrast to al-Shabab's indiscriminate attacks on Somali civilians, AFRICOM goes to great lengths to protect the innocent when striking terrorist targets,"" Olson added."	distant_evaluation
The latest strike comes after the U.S. military killed more than 50 militants in separate airstrikes in the Horn of Africa nation last week.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-17 22:19:45|Editor: xuxin	error
U.S.-led airstrikes on the last IS-held pocket on the eastern bank of Euphrates River have recently intensified as the U.S.-backed Kurdish militias were planning a second wave of attacks on the IS after a failed attempt on Sept. 10.	cause_general
A day earlier, the observatory said the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces has amassed around 1,700 fighters over the past 24 hours as part of the preparation for another wave of attack on IS positions east of Euphrates.	cause_general
"On Saturday, the Syrian Foreign Ministry renewed in a statement its call on the UN to form ""an independent international mechanism"" to investigate the ""crimes of the Washington coalition"" and punish the perpetrators."	distant_evaluation
The Syrian government has long questioned the intention of the U.S.-led operations in this oil-rich area inside Syria.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
DAMASCUS, Nov. 17 (Xinhua) -- At least 40 civilians were killed on Saturday morning by intensified U.S.-led airstrikes in eastern Syria, state news agency SANA reported.	main
The airstrikes targeted the village of al-Bukan near the town of Hajin, 110 km southeast of Deir al-Zour province in eastern Syria, said SANA.	main
The attack is part of incessant airstrikes targeting the last Islamic State (IS)-held pocket in the eastern countryside of Deir al-Zour.	cause_general
"SANA said the village of Bukan has become almost empty as people started fleeing the U.S.-airstrikes, which are carrying out the ""scorched land"" tactic."	cause_general
Over the past week, the U.S.-led strikes killed over 100 civilians, SANA added.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the coalition airstrikes killed 43 civilians Saturday, including 29 children and women.	main
"The watchdog group said the ""massacre"" is the largest on the eastern bank of Euphrates River in eastern Deir al-Zour since the U.S.-backed operation against IS started over 10 weeks ago."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-11 20:40:31|Editor: xuxin	error
Among other crimes, robbery of cash-in-transit vans also saw a sharp increase in the period surveyed, increasing by 86 counts, from 152 to 238, with most robberies happening on the roads and in business areas, and 40 in spaza shops and malls.	distant_historical
In most instances, security guards' weapons were taken from them.	distant_historical
Rape has increased by 0.5 percent, or by seven more people per day meaning that 109 people are raped every day in South Africa.	cause_general
While residential burglaries have decreased by 7.5 percent, this still means that 625 homes are burgled every day in South Africa.	cause_general
"""This situation must be reversed with lightning speed."	distant_evaluation
"The worst thing we can do is come and give the same or worse statistics next year,"" Cele said at a press conference after releasing the report."	distant_evaluation
"He said South Africans should not have to adapt to dangerous conditions or ""take it as a norm that when on the road, you must be hijacked, or when at home, someone must break in and terrorize you and your family""."	distant_evaluation
It looks as if that South Africans are living in a war zone, when there is peace and no war in the country, Cele said.	distant_evaluation
But Cele rejected the notion that the country has been plunged into a state of lawlessness.	distant_evaluation
"""We haven't reached a state of lawlessness in South Africa and we won't,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"""I think our emphasis should be on what ought to be done rather than the crime statistics, which doesn't give any joy,"" the minister said."	distant_evaluation
In response to the report, the opposition Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) called for the reinstatement of capital punishment.	distant_evaluation
"""The deplorable state of crime in our country, particularly in regards to the murder rate is reason enough to get South Africans talking about the reinstatement of the capital punishment,"" said Narend Singh, a Member of Parliament from the IFP."	distant_evaluation
"Francois Beukman, Chairperson of Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Police said, ""What is quite important to note is that the murder increase of 6.9 percent is really alarming and totally unacceptable... violent crime is indeed a clear and present danger to all South Africans."""	distant_evaluation
"The Democratic Alliance (DA) said the government led by the African National Congress (ANC) ""is losing the battle to keep South Africans safe""."	distant_evaluation
"The DA attributed the high crime rates to the inability of the South African Police Service (SAPS) which it said ""is severely under-resourced, under-staffed, under-trained and under-equipped."""	distant_evaluation
CAPE TOWN, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- South Africa is among the countries that has the highest murder rate in the world, with 57 murders reported every day, Police Minister Bheki Cele said on Tuesday.	main
Releasing his annual report on crime statistics in Parliament, Cele said 20,336 people were murdered in South Africa in the period from April 1, 2017 to April 31, 2018, up 6.9 percent from the 19,016 murders reported in the previous corresponding period.	main
Of these murdered victims, 3,915 were women and children, the statistics show.	distant_historical
Among the nine provinces, the Western Cape has the highest reported murder rate, to be followed by KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape.	cause_general
Seven of the top 10 police stations for murder cases are in the Western Cape where gang-related crimes are high.	cause_general
The province reported 808 gang-related murders in the period surveyed.	distant_historical
Firearms were used in almost half of all murders, to be followed by knives, sharp instruments and other unknown items.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-22 01:24:28|Editor: zh	error
The soldiers fired back with tear gas and gunshots.	cause_specific
The protesters also managed to cut the barbed wire of the border fence, get into Israel and burn tires in front of the Israeli army lookout posts at the border.	cause_specific
According to Israeli media, they also released dozens of arson balloons from eastern Gaza Strip into Israel causing large fires in various agricultural fields in the area.	cause_specific
The Israeli media also said that Palestinian activists threw homemade hand grenades at the soldiers on the border, lightly injuring an Israeli soldier.	cause_specific
Palestinian security officials in Gaza said that the Israeli army targeted three separate Islamic Hamas movement military posts close to the border with Israeli drones missiles and artillery bombs, no injuries reported.	cause_specific
Yehya Sinwar, top Gaza leader of Islamic Hamas movement, said Friday that the marches of return to defy the Israeli blockade will continue until it succeeds.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""We will carry on with the marches of return until we achieve the goals of lifting the siege,"" Sinwar told Palestinian protesters in eastern Gaza city as he joined the weekly march."	distant_expectations_consequences
"He slammed the Palestinian Authority for its security coordination and cooperation with Israel, saying ""we are backing our people until they achieve their goals, and those who bit on security coordination with Israel are the losers."""	distant_evaluation
"The Gaza-based Highest Commission of the ""Great March of Return"" warned in a press statement that ""the Israeli enemy has to know that we won't accept the continuation of the siege because our people are suffering from woes."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"The commission called on the international community to listen to ""the voices of the patients and the wounded"" while also referring to the hard life of around two million Palestinians."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
According to the health ministry in Gaza, Israeli forces have killed at least 178 Palestinians, and injured 19,000 others since the beginning of the rally against Israel's 12-year crippling blockade and the U.S. embassy move to the disputed holy city of Jerusalem.	cause_general
Efforts by Egypt and UN Special Coordinator Nickolay Mladenov have so far failed to broker a cease-fire agreement between Israel and the Hamas-led militant groups in the Gaza Strip.	cause_general
Palestinian protesters run to take cover from tear gas fired by Israeli troops during clashes near the Gaza-Israel border, east of Gaza City, on Sept. 21, 2018.	error
At least one Palestinian was killed and 312 were injured on Friday in clashes in eastern Gaza Strip bordering Israel, the health ministry said.	error
(Xinhua/Wissam Nassar)	error
GAZA, Sept. 21 (Xinhua) -- At least one Palestinian was killed and 312 were injured on Friday in clashes in eastern Gaza Strip bordering Israel, the health ministry said.	main
Gaza Health Ministry Spokesman Ashraf al-Qedra said that the clashes between hundreds of Palestinian protesters and Israeli soldiers have killed a Palestinian young man in his 20s and injured 159, among which 33 were hit by gunshots.	main
On Friday, thousands of Palestinian protesters joined the 26th Friday of the marches of return to break the Israeli siege, which started on March 30 in eastern Gaza Strip that borders Israel.	cause_specific
The protesters burned tires, waved Palestinian flags, chanted slogans against Israel and threw stones at Israeli soldiers stationed on the border.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-08 19:58:19|Editor: xuxin	error
"The apparent motive for wanting to kill Sanchez was ""vengeance"" for the plans of Sanchez's Socialist government to move the body of former Spanish leader, General Francisco Franco from the Valle de los Caidos (Valley of the Fallen) which is north of Madrid."	cause_specific
"Government sources have stressed to the media that Sanchez ""security was never in danger of being in compromised."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
MADRID, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- The Catalan regional police force (Mossos d'Esquadra) on Thursday confirmed the arrest of a 63-year-old man who was planning to shoot Spanish Prime Minister, Pedro Sanchez.	main
"The Mosso's d'Esquadra reported the arrest in a 'tweet' which reads: ""Arrested a man in Terrassa (close to Barcelona) who wanted to kill the prime minister of the Spanish Government."	main
"The arrested man, who had an arsenal of weapons at home, is in prison."""	main
The arrest took place on Sept. 19 after the Mossos were alerted by the member of a 'Whatsapp' chat group that the detainee had made threats against Sanchez and asked for logistical support for his plan.	cause_specific
"The arrested man, who also commented that he was willing to ""sacrifice himself for Spain,"" has been in preventive custody since his arrest."	cause_general
He is described as a 63-year-old security guard of a far-right wing ideology and an expert shot.	cause_general
The Spanish media have confirmed that he had 16 firearms, including several high-powered rifles, at his residence.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-08 19:58:20|Editor: xuxin	error
However, Taliban outfit rejected the report, claiming scores of security personnel have been killed elsewhere in Afghanistan since Wednesday.	cause_general
Since Afghan warring sides exaggerate their opponents' casualties, it is difficult to verify with independent sources.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
KABUL, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- Afghan insurgency and counter-insurgency have gotten impetus as 62 fighters from both the government and the anti-government militants have been killed over the past 24 hours, officials said Thursday.	main
Taliban militants, the major anti-government armed outfit in deadly offensive against government troops, stormed a military base in Khawja Ghar district of the northern Takhar province early Thursday, killing 11 security personnel and injuring 12 others, provincial police spokesman Abdul Khalil Asir said.	cause_specific
According to Asir, eight attacking militants were also killed in the firefight.	main
Eight Taliban fighters have been killed and five others injured in the conflict for Dasht-e-Archi district, district governor Nasrudin Nazari said.	main
Clashes between security forces and the Taliban outfit in Sayed Abad district of the eastern Wardak province have left five militants and three security personnel dead and nine others including five militants injured.	main
Eight more militants have been killed and seven others injured in the southern Uruzgan and the neighboring Zabul provinces over the past 24 hours, said an army spokesman, captain Ahmad Sadeq Eisa.	main
In the same way, the security forces have recaptured several villages including the main base of Taliban rebels in Dand-e-Ghori area of northern Baghlan province over the past 24 hours, provincial police chief Ekramudin Sari said Thursday.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-08 20:53:54|Editor: xuxin	error
In February, Egypt launched the Sinai 2018 military campaign, which has so far killed over 380 militants and more than 30 soldiers.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
CAIRO, Oct. 8 (Xinhua) -- The Egyptian security forces killed at least 52 militants in restive North Sinai Province northeast of the capital Cairo, the armed forces said in a statement on Monday.	main
A total of seven terrorist hideouts in northern and central Sinai were destroyed as part of the Comprehensive Operation Sinai 2018, the statement said.	main
The army killed 26 militants, and seized a number of automatic rifles, ammunition, hand grenades, explosive belts, wireless communication devices, and electric circuits.	main
The remaining half were killed by the police in a preemptive operation in Arish, capital of North Sinai Province.	main
The police seized 10 automatic rifles, four machine guns and two explosive devices, while destroying 26 vehicles and 52 unlicensed motorbikes used for transporting militants.	cause_general
The statement also said 28 terrorist vehicles were destroyed during their attempt to sneak into the western desert of Egypt from its borders with Libya, while 102 illegal immigrants were caught and 31 vehicles seized on Egypt's southern borders.	cause_general
The Sinai-based terrorist activities gained strength after the 2013 military ouster of Egyptian former Islamist President Mohammed Morsi in response to massive protests against his one-year rule.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-29 20:44:07|Editor: xuxin	error
Ibrahim al-Satari, 45 years old, father of Mohamed al-Satari, said with grief that the last ever thing he expected is to hear that his 13-year-old kid gets killed by a missile fired from a warplane.	distant_evaluation
"""This shows how brutal the Israeli army is and shows that this army has no morality, because armies of countries don't kill children,"" said the father as he stood near the body of his son for a last glance together with his wife and four children as well as relatives and neighbors."	distant_evaluation
"Abdul Aziz Abu Dhaher, father of Abdul Hamid Abu Dhaher, said he has a brother and a sister who were killed in the first Israeli war waged on Gaza in 2009, adding ""today my son is getting killed."""	distant_evaluation
The mourners took the bodies of the three children to their homes for the last goodbye and then carried them to the mosque for prayers before they were taken to the central Gaza Strip graveyard for burial.	cause_general
Ismail Haniyeh, chief of Hamas, Ahmad Bahar, deputy speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC), members of the PLC and thousands of people joined the funeral.	cause_general
"""This crime is not strange for the occupation to commit it, because it is the nature of this occupation to kill children and women,"" Bahar told the mourners,"" adding ""the three children were killed in a cold blood before the eyes and ears of the entire world."""	distant_evaluation
Bahar, who is also a senior Hamas leader, held Israel responsible for killing the three children and all the Palestinians in the marches of return which started in March 30.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
Mourners gather around the bodies of Palestinian teenagers who were killed in an Israeli airstrike on the border area, inside a mosque during their funeral in the central Gaza Strip town of Deir el-Balah, on Oct. 29, 2018.	main
Three Palestinian teenagers were killed on Sunday night in an Israeli airstrike on the border area between eastern Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip and Israel, medical sources said.	cause_specific
(Xinhua/Khaled Omar)	error
GAZA, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- Thousands of outraged mourners buried on Monday three Palestinian children who were killed on Sunday night in an Israeli airstrike on the border area between eastern Khan Younis town in southern Gaza Strip and Israel.	main
Relatives, friends and neighbors joined the funeral of the three killed children: Khaled Abu Sa'eed, 14, Abdul Hamid Abu Dhaher, 13 and Mohamed al-Satari, 13.	cause_general
The three children are residents of the village Wadi al-Salqaa east of the southern Gaza Strip town of Kham Younis.	cause_general
The mourners took the bodies of the three children from al-Aqsa Hospital in the town of Deir el-Ballah, carried their bodies on their shoulders amid chanting of Allaho Akbar (God is Great).	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-10 17:09:14|Editor: Yurou	error
Emergency services provider Aamin Ambulance's director, Abdikadir Abdirrahman, told Xinhua that 16 people have been taken to hospital.	cause_general
Witnesses described the blast as devastating.	distant_evaluation
"""I have seen many people injured in the blast and many buildings destroyed,"" one eyewitness, Nur Farah, told Xinhua."	distant_anecdotal
Militant group al-Shabab has claimed responsibility for the latest attack.	cause_general
On Sept. 2, the group launched a similar attack on Howlwadag headquarters, killing at least three people.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
People carry a victim at the scene of suicide attack in Mogadishu, Somalia, Sept. 10, 2018.	error
At least six people were killed and 16 others injured in a suicide car bombing targeting Mogadishu's Hodan district headquarters, Somali police and medical sources said Monday.	main
(Xinhua/Faisal Isse)	error
MOGADISHU, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- At least six people were killed and 16 others injured in a suicide car bombing targeting Mogadishu's Hodan district headquarters, Somali police and medical sources said Monday.	main
Police officer Abukar Mohamed told Xinhua that a suicide bomber rammed the vehicle into the headquarters of Hodan district, killing at least six.	cause_specific
"""We know so far that at least six people died in the blast."	main
"The offices of the district were also destroyed by the explosion,"" the officer said."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-17 13:35:57|Editor: mmm	error
The violence has been on the rise as Afghan security forces struggle against a surge in attacks by militants at the time when the country is preparing for parliamentary and district council elections slated for Oct. 20 this year.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
FARAH, Afghanistan, Sept. 17 (Xinhua) -- About 15 police personnel have been killed in fierce clashes in two Afghan western provinces as fighting rages elsewhere in the country, authorities said Monday.	main
In one attack, five police officers, including a senior police officer, were killed after Taliban attacked a police base on outskirts of Qala-e-Naw city, capital of Badghis province, a provincial police officer told Xinhua anonymously.	main
Several militants were also killed and wounded during the gun battle which occurred early Monday morning, but their number could not be exactly specified as the militants evacuated their casualties after the fighting, the source said.	cause_general
In Farah province, bordering Iran, 10 police officers were killed after clashes flared up in Gajgin village of Pusht Rod district, north of provincial capital Farah city Sunday night.	main
The Taliban seized weapons and ammunition after attacking security checkpoints in the area before destroying the posts and two police officers went missing after the fighting, according to a provincial source.	cause_general
The two provinces have been the scene of clashes between security forces and Taliban militants over the past couple of months.	cause_general
Further details about the incidents are still forthcoming amid the absence of any official statement.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 23:39:44|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
The illegal transactions were also protected by alleged corrupt officials to ensure no detection from law enforcement, he said.	distant_evaluation
The significant breakthrough followed Project Broadbill, an investigative operation launched by the Hawks in January last year, Mulaudzi said.	distant_historical
The operation focused on the criminal supply chain of poached rhinos within the Kruger National Park and other state-owned or private reserves in Kwazulu Natal and Gauteng provinces.	cause_general
Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya, the National Head of the Hawks, lauded the collaborative action as a huge success in the fight against rhino poaching in the country.	distant_evaluation
"""We have often been seized with picking up the remains of endangered species and not finding and arresting the poachers and traffickers behind the crime."	distant_evaluation
"""The operation spells hope for rhinos and other endangered species and we are fully committed to eradicating poaching and trafficking,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Lebeya vowed to continue teaming up with key enforcement partners and government departments in carrying out crucial investigations and arresting those behind the slaughter of the wildlife.	cause_general
The operation is still proceeding, and more seizures and possible arrests are expected, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
South Africa, home to about 90 percent of the world's rhino population, bears the brunt of rhino poaching, losing 1,028 rhinos to poaching last year.	distant_historical
The government has warned that the country's rhino population will be close to extinction by 2026 if no effective measures are taken to curb rhino poaching.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
CAPE TOWN, Sept. 19 (Xinhua) -- Six key syndicate members implicated in a massive trafficking of poached rhino horns have been arrested, police said on Wednesday.	main
The arrests were made on Tuesday in Mpumalanga Province by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, also known as the Hawks, in cooperation with other law enforcement agencies, according to the South African Police Service (SAPS).	main
The suspects, aged between 30 and 56, include two alleged syndicate leaders, two police officers and a former cop, SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said.	main
They appeared at the White River Magistrate's Court in Mpumalanga on Wednesday afternoon, facing charges of theft, conspiracy to commit a crime, illegal buying and selling of rhino horns, corruption and money laundering, said Mulaudzi.	main_consequence
The syndicate members allegedly ran poaching groups with the support of corrupt police officials as well as authorities from the private game farms, Mulaudzi said.	cause_specific
The expeditious internal disciplinary processes are already underway for the arrested police officers, he said.	distant_evaluation
The logistical, transport and communication support of the criminal group was well managed and controlled and allegedly succeeded in moving rhino horns from the protected areas to places where the transactions would take place, Mulaudzi disclosed.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-20 11:01:48|Editor: Liu	error
She was officially reported missing by her mother the following month.	distant_historical
The case was declared a major crime in 1979 but police never made an arrest.	distant_historical
"SA Police on Sunday announced that the case would be reviewed as part of Operation Persist, saying that they ""have not given up hope of providing her family with some answers about her disappearance."""	distant_evaluation
"""We have an open mind as to what's happened and how it's happened, but we are of the opinion she has been murdered."	distant_evaluation
"We don't hold out hope that she's just missing and will turn up,"" Michael Newbury, a sergeant with the Major Crime investigation unit, said on Sunday."	distant_evaluation
The review led to a new search of the Maitland property using ground penetrating radar, resulting in Wednesday's arrest.	cause_general
Geoffrey Adams denied any involvement in his wife's disappearance as recently as Wednesday morning.	cause_general
He will face a bail hearing at an Adelaide Magistrates Court on Thursday.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
CANBERRA, Sept. 20 (Xinhua) -- Police in South Australia (SA) on Thursday charged Geoffrey Adams over the 45-year-old cold case murder of his wife Colleen.	main
Officers arrested Adams, aged 70, at his home in Wallaroo, 156 km north of SA's capital Adelaide, on Wednesday evening and charged him with murder.	main
Shortly after making the arrest, police travelled with Adams to a property in Maitland, 50 km south, where the couple lived with their two children at the time of Colleen's disappearance in 1973.	cause_general
Footage captured by local news showed Adams in the backyard of the property with officers where he pointed to a concrete slab before becoming visually emotional.	cause_general
Police on Thursday began work to recover Colleen Adams' remains from that site.	cause_general
"""It doesn't replace Colleen but it's immensely important and we can't underestimate how important it is for family and loved ones,"" SA Police Detective Superintendent Des Bray told reporters."	distant_evaluation
Colleen Adams was last seen alive on Nov. 22, 1973, at the Maitland property where Geoffrey Adams claimed she left with an unidentified middle-aged woman at 7 a.m. local time having told him that she was leaving him.	distant_historical
A powerful bomb blew up a passenger bus on Saturday, killing 11 people and wounding more than 40 others on the southern coast of Sri Lanka.	main
The Tigers have been fighting for more than two decades to carve out a separate state for the island's Tamil minority.	cause_general
The bombing on Saturday took place near the busy town of Hikkaduwa, in an area that is popular with tourists.	cause_general
The body of a woman who was believed to have planted the parcel bomb was found near the bus, said Jayantha Gamage, the senior police official in the area.	distant_evaluation
He said most of the damage and casualties were to the rear section of the bus, which bore a gaping hole.	main_consequence
The bombing was the second in less than 24 hours.	cause_general
The authorities are investigating the first blast, which killed six people and wounded 50 on Friday northeast of the capital, Colombo.	cause_general
A government statement blamed the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam for the explosions.	distant_evaluation
''The government believes that the L.T.T.E.	distant_evaluation
is attempting to divert attention from the continuous defeats they have been suffering at the hands of the security forces during the recent past,'' the statement said.	distant_evaluation
''The government reiterates that terror attacks will not deter its efforts to find a peaceful solution to the national problem or its counterterrorism measures to defeat terrorism.''	distant_evaluation
The rebels had no immediate comment.	cause_general
They routinely deny involvement in attacks.	distant_evaluation
An American government report on the killing of 24 Iraqis, including several women and children, by marines in the village of Haditha in 2005 provides new details of how the shootings unfolded and supports allegations by prosecutors that a few marines illegally killed civilians, government officials said yesterday.	main
Sanick P. Dela Cruz, 24, of Chicago; Lance Cpl.	main_consequence
Justin L. Sharratt, 22, of Carbondale, Pa.; and Lance Cpl.	main_consequence
Stephen B. Tatum, 25, of Edmond, Okla.	main_consequence
The attack on the Iraqis began after the roadside bomb blew up one of four Humvees the marines were traveling in on Nov. 19, 2005.	cause_specific
The report portrays Sergeant Wuterich, the squad leader, and Sergeant Dela Cruz as minutes later killing five men who had nervously piled out of a taxi that had stopped near the marine convoy, the officials said.	main
The men ''were shot by Wuterich as they stood, unarmed, next to the vehicle approximately 10 feet in front of him,'' the report said, according to a person who has read it.	main
Sergeant Dela Cruz said that as he approached the taxi, he saw some men standing near it with their hands in the air, officials said.	main
After Sergeant Wuterich shot them, he continued shooting as they lay on the ground, and later urinated on one of them, an official said.	main
The marines, taking small arms fire from several locations near homes on either side of the convoy, attacked a home nearby, killing six people, including a young boy, a woman and two elderly people, none of them armed, the report said, according to officials and people who have read it.	main
The report said that marines had told investigators who interviewed them months later that they believed they had permission from their superiors to fire at will inside that home and a second home they raided minutes later, officials said.	main
The report, by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, contains thousands of pages of interviews with marines, Iraqi Army soldiers who had accompanied them and Iraqi villagers who had seen the attack.	main
They said an officer, First Lt. William T. Kallop, who arrived with other marines after the roadside bomb to support the squad under fire, told them to commandeer one of the homes.	main
In one of the houses the marines raided, the report said, a 13-year-old girl, Safah Yunis Salem, said she had survived by pretending to be dead after marines killed several family members, including her 3-year-old sister and 5-year-old brother, government officials said.	main
One person who has read the N.C.I.S.	distant_evaluation
report and who is sympathetic to the marines' account of events said that the report's thousands of pages provide evidence for both prosecution and defense teams, and that drawing conclusions from the report about the guilt of any of the marines is difficult.	distant_evaluation
''For every statement that said X happened, there's another statement that said Y happened,'' this person said, speaking only after being granted anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the report.	distant_evaluation
An N.C.I.S.	distant_evaluation
spokesman declined to comment on the report, which it has not officially released, and said the agency was troubled by the leak of it to The Post.	distant_evaluation
''N.C.I.S.	distant_evaluation
strives to ensure the integrity of every investigation and finds the idea that someone might leak any of its investigative products to be deeply troubling,'' the spokesman said.	distant_evaluation
Several lawyers representing the marines expressed anger at the Defense Department, which they said had allowed the report to be given surreptitiously to a newspaper, potentially damaging their clients' cases.	distant_evaluation
The shootings followed a roadside bombing that killed a lance corporal and wounded two other marines, said a senior Defense Department official and another official who had read the report.	cause_specific
''The defense lawyers are extremely upset,'' said Mark Zaid, a lawyer for Sergeant Wuterich, the squad leader who is charged with killing at least a dozen Iraqis.	distant_evaluation
''The release of the entire evidentiary set is unethical and appears to have been done by certain Pentagon officials with the intent to harm the defendants' defense.''	distant_evaluation
The report offers some contradictory evidence and omits other issues about how the marine chain of command handled the aftermath of the attack that have rankled certain people within the military and Defense Department.	main
One issue is the cash payments that commanders approved for families of people killed in the attacks.	distant_evaluation
Maj. Gen. Richard A. Huck, the commander of the Second Marine Division at the time, and Col. Stephen W. Davis, then the regimental commander, should have suspected the killings were improper, one Defense Department official said yesterday.	distant_evaluation
Though the Marine Corps' official view of the Haditha matter remained that 15 Iraqis had been killed by the roadside bomb, the corps nonetheless approved $2,500 for each of at least 15 families of people killed in the episode.	cause_general
''The numbers simply never added up, and the Marines never acknowledged it,'' the Defense Department official said.	distant_evaluation
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
Correction: January 9, 2007, Tuesday An article on Sunday about marines charged in the killing of 24 Iraqis in the village of Haditha in November 2005 misidentified the Pennyslvania hometown of one marine because of information provided by his lawyer.	main_consequence
The marine, Lance Cpl.	main_consequence
The evidence contained in the report, the most exhaustive of several inquiries begun by the military last year to determine what had happened in Haditha that day, led prosecutors to charge four enlisted marines with murder.	main_consequence
Justin Sharratt, is from Canonsburg, not Carbondale.	main_consequence
(The error also appeared in articles on Dec. 6 and Dec.	main_consequence
22.)	main_consequence
Four marine officers, who were not present during the attack, were charged with dereliction of duty and other crimes for failing to properly report details of the episode.	main_consequence
The details of the investigation, first reported by The Washington Post yesterday, corroborate accounts of how the killings took place over a period of hours, as described by senior military and Defense Department officials last year in The New York Times.	cause_general
But the report broadly expands on those descriptions, and provides additional evidence, sworn testimony and accounts of witnesses that both prosecutors and lawyers for the accused marines are likely to use in upcoming courts-martial, officials said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The four enlisted men charged with unpremeditated murder, all members of a squad of Company K, Third Battalion, First Marines, are Staff Sgt.	main_consequence
Frank D. Wuterich of Meriden, Conn.; Sgt.	main_consequence
The former owner of a Yonkers house where a doctor was found shot to death last week has been charged in the murder, the Yonkers police said yesterday.	main
But the arrest ended at least one chapter in one of the city's more baffling homicides.	distant_evaluation
On Wednesday, Dr. Lozada, 46, who operated a medical clinic for the poor in the Bronx, was found by his female companion dead on the floor of his bedroom.	cause_specific
He had been shot at point-blank range several times, including at least once in the face and once in the back of the head, the police said.	cause_specific
No weapon was found at the scene.	cause_general
The doctor lived alone and there were no signs of a struggle, prompting the police to speculate that he knew his attacker.	distant_expectations_consequences
When Dr. Lozada completed the purchase of the house, he changed the locks, the police said yesterday.	distant_historical
Edmund Hartnett, the Yonkers police commissioner, said yesterday at police headquarters, ''This act would be very difficult for one person to commit.''	distant_evaluation
He did not elaborate.	cause_general
The commissioner said investigators had recovered items of interest from Mr. Saunders's apartment, including clothing that was possibly stained with human blood.	cause_general
It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Saunders had hired a lawyer.	cause_general
They also suggested that he may have had an accomplice.	distant_evaluation
He has a criminal record, including grand larceny in 1996, the police said.	distant_historical
Kim VanZandt, who lives next to the house, said Mr. Saunders had put it back on the market after living there just one month.	distant_anecdotal
She said he believed when he bought the house that it had a larger backyard, and was angry when the owners of a house abutting his property erected a stone wall in what he considered his yard.	distant_anecdotal
At Mr. Saunders's apartment building in the Bronx, on Pennyfield Avenue near the Throgs Neck Bridge, a woman answering the buzzer for his apartment declined to be interviewed.	distant_evaluation
''It's private,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
Dr. Lozada was a native of the Dominican Republic who earned his medical degree at the University of Santo Domingo.	distant_historical
He spent much of his time at his practice, Hispanic Pediatrics, at 229 East Kingsbridge Road in the Bronx, where he treated mainly immigrant patients.	cause_general
On Thursday, dozens of patients stopped by Dr. Lozada's office to set up a shrine in his memory.	cause_general
The former owner, Samuel Saunders, 60, of the Bronx, was arrested yesterday and arraigned in Yonkers Criminal Court on a charge of murder in the second degree.	main
If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Saunders bought the home, a three-bedroom, ranch-style house on Brendon Hill Road near the Scarsdale border, in June 2005 for $825,000, with a $650,000 mortgage.	distant_historical
But the house was in some stage of foreclosure when the victim, Dr. Leandro Lozada, bought it eight months ago, the police said.	distant_historical
Specifics of the sale were not available.	cause_general
Because of the continuing investigation and the possibility of suspects still at large, the police provided few details of Mr. Saunders's arrest or the case.	cause_general
They would not discuss any possible motive for the crime.	cause_general
For 17 years, David B. Dahlstrom, a locksmith in Salt Lake City, has not been entirely himself.	cause_general
Mr. Dahlstrom said the ordeal had left him feeling ''violated and confused.''	distant_evaluation
''Me and my wife have been stressed,'' he added, ''my credit has gone downhill.	distant_evaluation
I cannot believe it happened to me.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Dahlstrom told the authorities that in 1985 he lost his wallet in Utah.	distant_historical
The wallet contained his birth certificate, Social Security card and driver's license.	distant_historical
Prosecutors said Mr. Rogge used Mr. Dahlstrom's identity in 1990, when he was arrested and convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol in Los Angeles.	distant_historical
From 1990 until last year, Mr. Rogge was convicted of a series of crimes using Mr. Dahlstrom's identity.	distant_historical
Vandalism in 1994.	distant_historical
Burglary in 1995.	distant_historical
Leaving an accident scene in 2001.	distant_historical
That is because, the authorities here say, Yorck A. Rogge, a German immigrant in Los Angeles, has been him, too.	cause_specific
Making a bomb threat in 2004.	distant_historical
For much of that time Mr. Rogge had a California driver's license in Mr. Dahlstrom's name.	distant_historical
Prosecutors are trying to learn when it was first issued and how.	cause_general
Jerry Baik, a deputy city attorney, said defendants' records of previous arrests often lists aliases, but the police and prosecutors focusing on the crime of the moment rarely check the aliases against stolen identities.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Dahlstrom, meanwhile, first became aware his identity had been stolen when he was denied a credit card in 1997 because of what a creditor called ''fraudulent activity.''	distant_historical
In 1998, he received an insurance claim for an accident he was not involved in and another claim a few years after that.	distant_historical
When he reported the trouble to the authorities in Utah they referred him to the police in Los Angeles, where the incidents occurred.	distant_historical
The Los Angeles police, he said, cautioned him that unless he had the true name of a suspect little could be done.	distant_historical
Problems mounted.	distant_evaluation
Last year, the police in Utah told him there was a warrant for his arrest, and Mr. Dahlstrom called the Los Angeles city attorney's office pleading for help.	distant_historical
The real Mr. Dahlstrom, 45, had lived a relatively uneventful life with his wife until Mr. Rogge entered the picture, prosecutors said.	cause_general
Ultimately, there were some lucky breaks.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Rogge's girlfriend, in a pique of anger, divulged his true name to a parole officer last year, who called Mr. Dahlstrom, who called the city attorney's office, starting a deeper investigation.	distant_historical
Investigators determined the fingerprints of the two Mr. Dahlstroms did not match.	distant_historical
From marriage license records, they established that Mr. Rogge was a German citizen, later confirmed by the German authorities, and investigators said it appeared he had entered the United States illegally.	distant_historical
A check of criminal records showed the streak of crimes Mr. Rogge committed under Mr. Dahlstrom's name, the authorities said, while Mr. Dahlstrom has struggled to clear up the bad credit prosecutors say Mr. Rogge left him.	distant_historical
Mr. Delgadillo said his office would issue documents to help Mr. Dahlstrom with creditors.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Baik said that Mr. Rogge, who was arrested in prison, had not been assigned a lawyer, pending his arraignment next week.	cause_general
If convicted on all the counts, he could be given a sentence totaling 31 years, but the maximum penalty is rarely given.	distant_expectations_consequences
The city attorney's office, which prosecutes misdemeanors, is considering turning the case over to the district attorney's office, which could file felony charges leading to a stiffer sentence.	cause_general
There may be yet another twist in the case.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Rogge, 41, who was first arrested using Mr. Dahlstrom's name in 1990, has committed a string of crimes under it, the authorities said, and is in a state prison for violating parole after being charged with stealing a car and assaulting his girlfriend last year.	cause_specific
Prosecutors are trying to determine whether the Mr. Rogge in custody is the same Yorck Rogge who, according to an article in The Los Angeles Times at the time, was honored by a San Fernando Valley civic group in 1987 for helping chase a purse snatcher.	cause_general
Prosecutors in Los Angeles want to keep him there.	distant_evaluation
The city attorney's office filed charges on Wednesday against Mr. Rogge, accusing him of 81 counts of identity theft and fraud.	main
The case illustrates the tangled trail identity theft can leave, said Rocky Delgadillo, the city attorney, although he called this one ''extraordinary'' both for the duration of the fraud and the number of crimes traced to Mr. Rogge under his assumed name.	distant_evaluation
As a result, Mr. Delgadillo said, Mr. Dahlstrom has had difficulty getting credit and at one point was detained by police officers serving an arrest warrant in his name.	distant_historical
''This certainly demonstrates the kind of nightmare identity theft victims can suffer,'' said Mr. Delgadillo, whose office last year established a special unit of four prosecutors to investigate identity theft, a problem federal authorities say has grown considerably in the past decade.	distant_evaluation
An American citizen from Columbus, Ohio, was indicted there Thursday on charges of training with Al Qaeda and conspiring to attack Americans at European resorts and to destroy United States embassies and military bases abroad.	main
But Hisham Jenhawi, a friend of Mr. Paul and his wife, told The Associated Press that he could not believe the charges.	distant_anecdotal
''The way he speaks,'' Mr. Jenhawi said, ''the kindness he has, it isn't even close to his personality to do something like this.''	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Jenhawi said that he had known Mr. Paul about a year, that they attended the same mosque and that their daughters played together.	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Paul's daughter is about 9 years old and is home-schooled, Mr. Jenhawi said.	distant_anecdotal
Mr. Brooks, the F.B.I.	cause_general
spokesman, said the investigation of Mr. Paul had taken four years, a result, he said, of the complexity of compiling admissible evidence from eight countries.	cause_general
Mr. Paul was born Paul Kenyatta Laws and changed his name to Abdulmalek Kenyatta in 1989 before settling on Christopher Paul in 1994.	distant_historical
The indictment says he participated in military-style training in an unspecified county in 1990 and joined Al Qaeda one year later, offering his services on trips to Pakistan and Afghanistan.	distant_historical
In Peshawar, Pakistan, it says, he stayed at Beit-ul-Ansar guesthouse, which the United States later designated a base of a foreign terrorist organization affiliated with Al Qaeda.	distant_historical
There, the government says, he met a former personal pilot for Osama bin Laden.	distant_historical
Federal prosecutors in Columbus said the suspect, Christopher Paul, 43, began supporting terrorists in the United States, Africa and Europe in 1989, buying explosives and helping to train radical Islamic fundamentalists in Germany.	distant_historical
The indictment does not describe any outcome of this meeting.	cause_general
Mr. Paul is married to a woman identified in the indictment only as F. Bashir.	cause_general
Her name appears in connection with a letter that, the government says, Mr. Paul sent her before they were married concerning the rearing of their future children as ''little mujahideen.''	distant_historical
The indictment says Mr. Paul stored a variety of items at residences in Columbus, including laser range finders, a night vision scope, books and literature on explosives, remote control devices and survival gear.	distant_historical
Some of those items, seized from Mr. Paul's apartment, are listed by the government as evidence in the coming trial of another terrorism suspect, Nuradin Abdi, who is charged with plotting to blow up a shopping mall in the Columbus area.	cause_general
The most serious charge, carrying a penalty of life imprisonment, is conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction -- bombs with which, the indictment says, the American tourists, embassies and bases, in unspecified countries, were to be attacked.	distant_evaluation
Michael Brooks, an F.B.I.	distant_evaluation
spokesman here in Cincinnati, declined to say whether any of the attacks had actually been carried out.	distant_evaluation
Further details, Mr. Brooks said, will emerge at trial.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Paul, born in Columbus, was arrested at his apartment there late Wednesday and appeared in federal court on Thursday.	cause_specific
His lawyer, Don Wolery, said he would plead not guilty Friday at his arraignment.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Wolery declined additional comment.	cause_general
The death toll from Wednesday's suicide bombings in Algeria rose by 10 on Thursday, to 33, and the police mounted a nationwide manhunt for those responsible for the attacks.	main_consequence
Algeria has only recently emerged from the shadows of a brutal civil war, set off when the military canceled elections in 1992 that a fundamentalist Islamic party was poised to win.	distant_evaluation
The war, which wound down after a government amnesty in 1999, was marked by horrific massacres of men, women and children -- slitting throats was common-- that left deep scars in the national psyche.	distant_historical
A national reconciliation program last year sought to shut that history firmly in the past with a new amnesty for the remaining Islamist fighters and with the release of hundreds of former fighters from jail.	distant_historical
Even talking of the past atrocities became illegal.	distant_historical
A committed core of Islamists kept up the fight, but most Algerians were confident that the movement had been defeated, as repeated government pronouncements claimed.	cause_general
Islamists warned otherwise, however.	distant_evaluation
''When you leave a small fire burning, it can spread,'' Abdelhak Layada, a founder of the Armed Islamic Group, said in an interview last June, shortly after he was freed under the reconciliation program.	distant_historical
The Armed Islamic Group was a precursor to the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, which announced an alliance with Al Qaeda last year and recently changed its name to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.	distant_historical
The bombings took place on the fifth anniversary of a deadly truck bombing at El Ghriba Synagogue in Djerba, Tunisia, for which the Salafists claimed responsibility.	cause_general
Twenty-one people died in that attack.	distant_historical
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, North Africa's most active terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the twin bombings, which were directed at the main government building in Algiers and at a police station east of the city.	main
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb continues to claim that it does not attack ordinary Algerians, but Wednesday's bombings showed otherwise.	distant_evaluation
Many of the people who died were office workers or bystanders outside the government building.	cause_general
People were quick to blame the government, saying lenience toward former rebels encouraged the movement and weakened the resolve of the army and the police.	distant_evaluation
''There's been a lack of vigilance on the part of the security forces,'' said Mahmoud Belhimeur, an editor at El Khabar newspaper.	distant_evaluation
''They said that it's over, but they forgot that these people operate best when it's calm.''	distant_evaluation
More than 200 people were wounded.	main_consequence
It could have been even worse: the police found a third bomb in a Mercedes-Benz sedan near the home of Ali Tounsi, director general of the national police, according to witnesses and local press reports.	cause_general
The bomb was defused.	cause_general
It was apparently one of the bombs referred to on Islamist Web sites on Wednesday, which claimed that a third suicide bomber was attacking the Algerian headquarters of Interpol.	cause_general
Interpol links police forces in 186 countries around the world.	cause_general
The police set up checkpoints around Algiers and increased patrols on the outskirts, but the mood there had already darkened.	main_consequence
The French-language daily newspaper Liberté wrote that the attacks ''have wakened the demons of a violence we believed had been contained.''	distant_evaluation
Italy's fragile government, under fire for making a deal to free an Italian journalist in Afghanistan, on Thursday proposed international standards for confronting the rising number of high-profile kidnappings in war zones.	main
The United States, Britain and other nations contended that the deal would encourage more kidnappings.	distant_expectations_consequences
Inside Italy, that criticism rose on Sunday after Mr. Mastrogiacomo's Afghan interpreter, Ajmal Naqshbandi, was killed by the Taliban, which were demanding the release of two other prisoners.	cause_specific
On Thursday, Massimo D'Alema, foreign minister for Italy's center-left government, strongly defended the deal to free Mr. Mastrogiacomo.	distant_evaluation
''We acted on the basis of one criterion: that of giving priority to the safety of the hostages,'' he said in a speech to the lower house of Parliament.	distant_evaluation
''This is an established principle, used over the years by various governments and always supported.''	distant_evaluation
In this case, he said, Italy had been tricked, because it believed that the trade for Mr. Mastrogiacomo had included Mr. Naqshbandi as well.	distant_evaluation
More generally, he said he believed that there should always be room for negotiation if it would save a hostage's life.	distant_evaluation
''At the same time, I think it's time to explore the possibility of guidelines shared on an international level, a code of shared behavior,'' he said.	main
''I think, for example, in the case of Afghanistan, of a discussion at NATO.''	distant_evaluation
Center-right opposition leaders have accused the government of putting undue pressure on the Afghan government to swap the prisoners, and for caring more about the life of an Italian journalist than his Afghan interpreter.	distant_evaluation
The Italian move came as new appeals went out for Alan Johnston, the BBC reporter kidnapped at gunpoint in Gaza a month ago.	cause_specific
Mr. Mastrogiacomo's driver was also killed, shortly after he was kidnapped in southern Afghanistan.	cause_specific
In the West Bank city of Ramallah, the BBC's director general, Mark Thompson, said at a news conference that he had met with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, on Wednesday evening to discuss Mr. Johnston, and that Mr. Abbas had told him there was ''credible evidence'' that Mr. Johnston was safe and well.	distant_evaluation
In Gaza City, Palestinian journalists rallied for Mr. Johnston's release, and they drove a convoy of cars through the city's streets.	cause_general
About 18 foreign journalists and aid workers have been kidnapped in Gaza in the past year, but most have been released unharmed, within hours or days.	distant_historical
In New York, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, called for Mr. Johnston's release, saying that freedom of the press should be protected ''as a matter of principle.''	distant_evaluation
There has been no word from Mr. Johnston, 44, since he disappeared on March 12.	cause_general
On Thursday, however, a Palestinian official, Saeb Erekat, said the government ''has been reassured by many sources that Mr. Johnston is alive.''	distant_evaluation
Hostage-taking has long been a threat in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, though concerns have recently risen on several fronts.	cause_general
Among them was the two-week detention of 15 British sailors and marines by Iran, which accused them of trespassing in its national waters.	cause_general
All were released unharmed last week, amid allegations, denied by Britain, that an exchange was made for an Iranian diplomat arrested in Iraq.	cause_general
Here in Italy, the government has faced criticism at home and abroad for pressuring the Afghan government to release five Taliban prisoners for Daniele Mastrogiacomo, a reporter for La Repubblica, kidnapped last month.	distant_evaluation
After some of the heaviest fighting in two years in tribal areas bordering Afghanistan, Pakistan's generals are claiming initial success in their latest efforts to combat foreign militants and regain some control in one of the most lawless regions.	main
The strategy has been criticized for allowing militants a haven to regroup and increase their attacks across the border in Afghanistan and possibly farther afield.	cause_general
The military has now set upon a third way to tackle the problem of militancy in its tribal regions, backing local armed tribesmen who have turned against the foreigners and their local protectors.	cause_general
A rift emerged between a local commander and Uzbek fighters in his region in November and the military, and intelligence agencies admit they have sought to exploit the growing animosity among the local tribespeople toward the foreign militants, whom they accused of thuggery, robberies and murders.	distant_historical
''It's indigenous and it's picking up momentum,'' General Muhammad said.	distant_evaluation
''It's a homegrown affair.''	distant_evaluation
In a speech at a military conference in Islamabad on Thursday, President Musharraf said: ''The people of South Waziristan now have risen against the foreigners.	distant_evaluation
They have killed about 300 of them, and they got support from the Pakistan Army.	cause_specific
They asked for support.''	distant_evaluation
Military and paramilitary forces have moved in and occupied strategic hilltops and ridges in several areas that were until now controlled by militants in Shin Warsak, Kalosha and Tora Gola, General Muhammad said.	cause_specific
The immediate Wana region was almost clear of Uzbek militants, and tribal volunteers were chasing them in Nandran, a mountainous area near the Afghan border.	cause_general
President Pervez Musharraf acknowledged Thursday for the first time that the Pakistani military had been involved in the recent heavy fighting in the tribal area of South Waziristan and said that nearly 300 foreign militants had been killed.	cause_specific
Even as it explains the recent developments as a homegrown uprising, the government is claiming credit for the shift in tribal dynamics as a result of its three-pronged strategy, referred to by General Muhammad as coercive deployment, political engagement and socio-economic development, to ''win over the hearts and minds of the people.''	distant_evaluation
Yet it remains unclear whether all is as the military says.	distant_evaluation
Promised meetings with members of the political administration of South Waziristan and with tribal elders did not materialize on the journalists' visit to the region Wednesday.	cause_general
And while the military has tried to depict the fighting as local tribespeople moving against the foreigners, in fact it has been led by a Pakistani Taliban commander, Maulavi Nazir, who has close links to the Afghan Taliban and Arab members of Al Qaeda.	cause_general
One of his accusations against the Uzbek group of militants has been that they did not want to fight foreign troops in Afghanistan, but preferred to attack pro-American Pakistanis, whether tribal elders or government members.	distant_evaluation
Answering a volley of questions regarding Mr. Nazir, General Muhammad said only that the militant commander was subservient to his tribe and not above it.	distant_evaluation
Hundreds of foreign militants remain in the region, probably including the leaders of Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al- Zawahri, officials admit.	distant_evaluation
''It will take time,'' the general said.	distant_expectations_consequences
''There are no quick fixes in this war.	distant_evaluation
We are here for a long haul.''	distant_evaluation
The commander of Pakistani troops in the tribal areas, Maj. Gen. Gul Muhammad, put the figure much lower, at 150 to 200, in a briefing for journalists in Wana, the main town of South Waziristan, on Wednesday.	cause_specific
THE REACH OF WAR	error
By some estimates only dozens have been killed.	cause_specific
Foreign journalists are not permitted to visit the tribal areas, except a few selected ones under strictly controlled visits, and there has been no independent verification of casualty figures.	cause_general
The military does appear to have gained more control in the immediate region of Wana, and General Muhammad said the progress made in clearing the area of foreign militants -- mainly Uzbeks and other Central Asians who have been allied with Al Qaeda -- would serve as a model to use in the rest of the region, including the equally lawless North Waziristan next door.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pakistan has been under heavy pressure from the United States and NATO countries to contain the spreading lawlessness of its tribal areas which Pakistani, Afghan and foreign militants have been using to wage an expanding insurgency across the border in Afghanistan.	cause_specific
South Waziristan had become a Taliban state in all but name after a peace deal with militants in 2005 gave them freedom to operate while the military withdrew to its barracks.	cause_general
The Pakistani military abandoned broad-scale military operations in favor of negotiated peace deals with the militants over the past two years.	cause_general
There is not much left in Baghdad that all its residents, Sunnis and Shiites, laborers and professors, consider their own.	distant_evaluation
But so far the neighborhoods on either side of the Sarafiya bridge have been spared the worst of the violence, and both are still mixed as so much of the city once was.	distant_evaluation
Every Baghdadi seemed to have a memory of the bridge on Thursday.	distant_evaluation
An engineer for the General Committee for Trains and Bridges remembered coming to the city from the country as a child and standing in awe before the marvelous bridge.	distant_anecdotal
''I used to walk nearby the bridge along with my cousins dazzled to see the train moving on the track, puffing out the smoke backward,'' he said.	distant_anecdotal
An Iraqi reporter described crossing it to go to art school every day.	distant_anecdotal
''Sometimes alone or with a girlfriend,'' he said.	distant_anecdotal
''Sometimes I used to spend hours looking at the river from above.''	distant_anecdotal
Riyadh Yosif, a day laborer who walked across the bridge to look for work in the industrial area on the other side of the river each morning, described feeling utter shock when he rushed out after he heard the bomb.	distant_anecdotal
''We went out to see what happened, and the bridge, which I loved so much, I found was destroyed.''	distant_anecdotal
He began to cry.	distant_anecdotal
But the Sarafiya bridge, flung across the Tigris, tied the city together, literally and metaphorically.	cause_general
''I wish they had killed one of my children rather than destroying the bridge, which I consider part of my heart.	distant_anecdotal
''This bridge is so important to us.	distant_anecdotal
We cross it every day to look for work.	distant_anecdotal
What shall we do now?	distant_anecdotal
They have destroyed us as well.''	distant_anecdotal
When the bridge was destroyed early Thursday morning by a truck bomb that collapsed a large section into the river, Baghdad mourned.	main
People who had crossed the bridge every day to go to their jobs on the opposite side gathered on the riverbanks and stood weeping as if they had lost someone they loved.	main_consequence
More people have died in many other bombings, but the destruction of the bridge struck at the city's soul, at its lingering romance with an all but vanished image of Baghdad as a Paris of the Middle East.	distant_evaluation
The steel bridge, which spans a stretch of river about 500 yards wide, was built by a British company at a time when foreigners from all over the world came to the city to study and work.	distant_historical
Construction started in 1946, and it was completed in 1951, while the British-installed monarchy was in place.	distant_historical
Built to accommodate train tracks as well as a roadway for cars, the bridge linked Baghdad's two main rail stations and was one of the city's main transit points across the Tigris.	cause_general
Most of the city is divided now, with the west bank of the Tigris predominantly Sunni and the east side predominantly Shiite.	main_consequence
(Reuters) - A magnitude 6.5 earthquake that struck off the coast of Indonesia’s Tanimbar Islands on Saturday caused no damage and created no threat of a tsunami, Indonesian authorities said.	main
“The quake was felt faintly for around two to three seconds,” Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, spokesman for Indonesia’s Disaster Mitigation Agency, said.	distant_evaluation
“There was no panic in Tiakur and Saumlaki, areas close to the epicenter.”	distant_evaluation
Conditions were “safe” near the epicenter and there were no victims or property damage, Nugroho said.	main
The U.S. Geological Survey recorded the quake as centered at sea 279 kilometers (173 miles) west of the town of Saumlaki in Indonesia’s remote Tanimbar Islands.	cause_specific
Indonesia’s Meteorolgy and Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysics Agency (BMKG) said there was no tsunami potential from the quake, which was recorded at 162 kilometers deep.	main
Indonesia sits on the Pacific Ring of Fire and is regularly hit by earthquakes.	cause_general
In 2004, the Indian Ocean tsunami killed 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
KATOWICE, Poland (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Taxing the extraction of fossil fuels could help pay for the growing costs of damage from harsher storms, wildfires, floods and rising seas, while providing a stronger incentive to wean the world off carbon-heavy energy, green groups said on Monday.	main
Saleemul Huq, head of the Bangladesh-based International Centre for Climate Change and Development, said that with cash to help poorer countries in short supply, fossil fuel companies that profit from driving climate change are an obvious source of additional money.	distant_evaluation
Right now, “the fossil fuel industry is causing this problem and getting out of paying for it”, he added.	distant_evaluation
From 2021, the proposed tax would levy $5 on each ton of heat-trapping emissions expected to be generated by oil, coal and gas deposits that are extracted from the ground.	distant_expectations_consequences
The money would flow through existing national systems for royalty payments where fossil fuel companies operate, with a share going through a body set up under the Green Climate Fund to help pay for losses around the world, the report said.	main
Part of the levy would stay in nations with fossil fuel industries, to help their workers find new jobs and pay for cleaner infrastructure for low-income communities, it said.	main
Poorer fossil fuel-producing states, such as Indonesia and Nigeria, would keep all the funds raised, with middle-income nations such as China and Colombia retaining a larger share of income than richer countries, which would keep about half.	distant_expectations_consequences
LAWSUIT ‘TSUNAMI’	distant_expectations_consequences
The tax would rise by $5 a year until 2030, jumping to a $10 annual increase after that through 2050, when fossil fuels must be largely phased out of global energy systems to meet government commitments made under the 2015 Paris climate accord.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The world must wean itself off fossil fuels if we are to protect the planet - and we must do so quickly,” Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, WWF’s climate and energy head and former Peruvian environment minister, said in a statement supporting the tax.	distant_evaluation
Julie-Anne Richards, one of the report’s authors, said the tax was “a practical way to address the injustice at the heart of climate change”.	distant_evaluation
A “climate damages tax” levied on oil, gas and coal companies could raise $300 billion a year by 2030 to bail out communities bearing the brunt of global warming, said a proposal supported by WWF, Practical Action and others.	main
The fossil fuel industry makes “hundreds of billions in profits while the true costs of their products are paid by the rest of society”, she added.	distant_evaluation
There are precedents for such taxes on tobacco, oil spills and the nuclear industry, she noted.	distant_evaluation
And as losses mount from wilder weather, a fossil fuel levy could become more politically palatable, particularly as companies face a rising tide of costly lawsuits over their responsibility in causing climate change.	distant_expectations_consequences
“This tsunami of litigation that is coming down the line will make the climate damages tax look more appealing,” Richards said on the sidelines of the U.N. talks.	distant_expectations_consequences
Storm damage in the United States and the Caribbean alone last year amounted to more than $220 billion, representing nearly two-thirds of global losses caused by natural disasters in 2017, the United Nations said last week.	distant_historical
The tax would lay the cost of rising disaster losses directly on the industries most responsible for them, they said in a report released at U.N. climate negotiations in Poland.	main
Besides assisting those in need overseas, at least half of the funds raised from the government-levied tax would help poorer groups at home switch to green jobs, energy and transport, its backers said.	main
Spending on social justice measures is seen as crucial to avoiding the kind of protests France has seen in recent weeks over rising living costs, sparked partly by hikes in fuel taxes.	distant_evaluation
“The injustice of climate change is that the impacts are felt first and hardest by those with the least responsibility for its causes,” said Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu’s foreign affairs minister.	distant_evaluation
His Pacific island nation lost 64 percent of its GDP - about $450 million - during Cyclone Pam in 2015, and has struggled to recover financially, he noted.	distant_historical
“We cannot sustain the level of public expenditure we need to keep recovering,” he said.	distant_evaluation
As the pace of disasters picks up, “we’re now on a permanent state-of-emergency footing” and new sources of finance are needed to help meet costs, he said.	distant_evaluation
(Adds fresh quotes on aid, details on rescue operations)	error
The quake and tsunami caused a power outage that cut communications around Palu.	cause_general
On Saturday, authorities were still having difficulties coordinating rescue efforts.	distant_evaluation
Chief security minister Wiranto told TVOne the military had started sending in cargo planes from the capital Jakarta carrying relief aid.	cause_general
The city’s airport remained closed after its runway and air traffic control tower was damaged in the quake but officials said they were preparing to reopen to allow aid to come in.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We hope the airport can be reopened soon for flights carrying disaster relief and aid,” said Yohannes Sirait of AirNav, the air traffic management agency.	distant_expectations_consequences
Metro TV played amateur footage that showed large pools of water remaining from the tsunami, a bridge that had been washed away, large cracks in roads and buildings badly damaged.	cause_general
Tezar Kodongan, a resident of Palu who took one of the videos, told the TV station some of the city landmarks were badly damaged.	distant_anecdotal
“There is no evacuation yet in the disaster area,” Kodongan added.	distant_anecdotal
The U.S. Geological Survey put the magnitude of the second quake at a strong 7.5, after first saying it was 7.7.	distant_evaluation
The Palu area was hit by a less powerful quake earlier on Friday, which destroyed some houses, killed one person and injured at least 10 in the fishing town of Donggala, closest to the epicentre, authorities said.	cause_general
By Gayatri Suroyo	error
More than 600,000 people live in Donggala and Palu.	cause_general
Indonesia sits on the Pacific Ring of Fire and is regularly hit by earthquakes.	cause_general
In August, a series of major quakes killed over 500 people in the tourist island of Lombok and destroyed dozens of villages along its northern coast.	cause_general
(Additional reporting by Kanupriya Kapoor, Fransiska Nangoy, Fanny Potkin, Tabita Diela; Editing by Michael Perry)	error
JAKARTA, Sept 29 (Reuters) - At least 30 people were killed when a major earthquake and tsunami hit the city of Palu on Indonesia’s Sulawesi island on Friday, a hospital official told Metro TV in a report broadcast on Saturday.	main
Strong aftershocks continued to rock the coastal city on Saturday morning after waves up to two metres (six feet) high swept through the scenic tourist town, triggered by a 7.5 magnitude earthquake on land.	cause_general
Amateur footage shown by local TV stations, which could not immediately be authenticated by Reuters, showed waters crashing into houses along Palu’s shoreline, scattering shipping containers and flooding into a mosque in the city.	cause_general
“Bodies of victims were found in several places, because they were hit by the rubble of collapsing buildings or swept away by the tsunami ... but we are still collecting data,” Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman said on Saturday.	distant_evaluation
Doctor Komang Adi Sujendra told Metro TV that 30 people were killed and their bodies taken to his hospital, adding another 12 injured needed orthopaedic surgery.	main
National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Nugroho declined to give an official death toll.	cause_general
Dozens of injured people were being treated in makeshift medical tents set up outdoors, TV images showed.	cause_general
PALU, Indonesia (Reuters) - Children in the Indonesian city of Palu began returning to school on Monday to tidy up their classrooms and hopefully see their friends 10 days after a major earthquake and tsunami struck.	cause_general
School principal Kasiludin said authorities told all teachers to show up for work from Monday to collect information on student numbers.	distant_anecdotal
“We won’t force the students to come back because many are traumatized.	distant_anecdotal
But we must start again soon to keep their spirits up and so they don’t fall behind,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
The school had lost at least seven students and one teacher, he said.	distant_anecdotal
Across the city, nine schools were destroyed, 22 teachers were killed and 14 were missing, the disaster agency said, adding that 140 tents had been set up for classes.	main_consequence
At the SMP Negeri 15 Palu middle school, fewer than 50 of its 697 students showed up.	cause_general
School principal Abdul Rashid said he was aware of four students killed in the quake.	distant_anecdotal
Children attend a class at a camp for displaced people following the earthquake and tsunami in Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia October 8, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Darren Whiteside	error
“Classes haven’t started.	distant_anecdotal
The 7.5 magnitude quake on Sept. 28 brought down many buildings in the small city on Sulawesi island, 1,500 km (30 miles) northeast of Jakarta, while tsunami waves smashed into its beachfront.	main
We’re only collecting data to find out how many students are safe,” he said, adding that the education ministry would decide when schools open.	distant_anecdotal
“I don’t think we’re ready.	distant_anecdotal
Many children are traumatized and frightened.”	distant_anecdotal
(Catastrophe in Sulawesi: tmsnrt.rs/2OqQlUo)	error
POSITIVE THINKING	distant_anecdotal
One boy chatting in the school compound with friends said he was sad so few of his class mates had shown up.	distant_anecdotal
“I want to think positively; I hope they are OK,” said Muhamad Islam Bintang Lima, dressed in the school uniform of white shirt and navy blue trousers.	distant_anecdotal
Most of the dead from the quake and tsunami were in Palu, the region’s main urban center.	cause_general
Figures for more remote areas are trickling in but they seem to have suffered fewer deaths than the city.	distant_evaluation
Sulawesi is one of Indonesia’s five main islands.	cause_general
But the biggest killer was probably soil liquefaction, which happens when a powerful quake turns the ground into a liquid mire and which obliterated several Palu neighborhoods.	distant_evaluation
The archipelago sees frequent earthquakes and occasional tsunamis.	distant_evaluation
In 2004, a quake off Sumatra island triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean that killed 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
A spokesman for the national disaster mitigation agency said on Sunday searches for bodies would stop on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Debris would be cleared and areas hit by liquefaction would be turned into parks and sports venues and will include memorials.	distant_expectations_consequences
About 70,000 people have been displaced and many are living in basic shelters in Palu and surrounding hills.	main_consequence
A plan to relocate communities is being drawn up, the agency said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The government has allocated 560 billion rupiah ($37 million) to help victims of the earthquake.	cause_general
Slideshow (20 Images)	error
An International Monetary Fund/World Bank meeting that the government is hosting on the island of Bali this week has drawn some criticism from the political opposition.	cause_general
“What is the benefit for us Indonesian people, especially in this time of catastrophe,” Fadli Zon, deputy speaker of parliament from the opposition Gerindra party, said on Twitter, taking issue with government spending on the meeting.	distant_evaluation
The official death toll rose to 1,948 and bodies are still being recovered.	main_consequence
(Destruction in Palu: tmsnrt.rs/2IDFukK)	error
No one knows how many people are missing, especially in the areas hit by liquefaction, but it could be as high as 5,000, the national disaster agency said.	distant_expectations_consequences
At one state high school, teenagers dressed in gray and white uniforms swept up broken glass in the classrooms.	cause_general
Trophies had fallen from a broken school showcase and the basketball court was cracked.	cause_general
“It’s sad to see our school like this,” said Dewi Rahmawati, 17, who expects to graduate next year and wants to study economics at university.	distant_anecdotal
The students found out that they had to turn up to school through messages on Facebook and WhatsApp.	cause_general
PALU, Indonesia (Reuters) - Rescue workers in Indonesia stepped up their search for victims of an earthquake and tsunami on Tuesday, hoping to find as many bodies as they can before this week’s deadline for their work to halt, as the official death toll rose to 2,010.	main
Related Coverage Health fears turn from injury to disease as Indonesia quake toll rises above 2,000	error
“There are so many children still missing, we want to find them quickly,” said Amin, who is from Balaroa and has relatives unaccounted for.	distant_anecdotal
“It doesn’t matter if it’s my family or not, the important thing is that we find as many as we can.”	distant_anecdotal
The state disaster mitigation agency said the search was being stepped up and focused more intensely on areas where many people are believed to be buried.	main
The decision to end the search has angered some relatives of the missing but taxi driver Rudy Rahman, 40, said he had to accept it.	distant_anecdotal
“As long as they keep searching, I will be here every day looking for my son,” said Rahman, who said he had lost three sons in the disaster.	distant_anecdotal
The bodies of two were found, the youngest is missing.	distant_anecdotal
“This is the only thing I can do, otherwise I would go insane,” he said, choking back tears.	distant_anecdotal
“If they stop, what can I do?	distant_anecdotal
There are four metres of soil here.	distant_anecdotal
The national disaster mitigation agency has called off the search from Thursday, citing concern about the spread of disease.	cause_specific
I couldn’t do it on my own.”	distant_anecdotal
‘POLITICAL SENSITIVITIES’	distant_evaluation
While Indonesian workers searched, the disaster agency ordered independent foreign aid workers to leave the quake zone.	cause_general
An excavator removes a damaged car next to the debris of a mosque damaged by an earthquake in the Balaroa neighbourhood in Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia, October 8.	error
REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha	error
Indonesia has traditionally been reluctant to be seen as relying on outside help to cope with disasters, and the government shunned foreign aid this year when earthquakes struck the island of Lombok.	cause_general
But it has accepted help from abroad to cope with the Sulawesi disaster.	cause_general
The disaster agency, in a notice posted on Twitter, set the rules out for foreign non-governmental organisations (NGOs), saying they were not allowed to “go directly to the field” and could only work with “local partners”.	cause_general
“Foreign citizens who are working with foreign NGOs are not allowed to conduct any activity on the sites,” it said, adding that foreign NGOs with people deployed should withdraw them immediately.	cause_general
A few foreign aid workers have been in the disaster zone, including a team from the group Pompiers Humanitaires Francais that searched for survivors, but they have spoken of difficulties in getting entry permits and authorisation.	cause_general
Debris would be cleared and areas where bodies lie would eventually be turned into parks, sports venues and memorials.	distant_expectations_consequences
“This is the first time we encountered such difficulty in actually getting to do our work,” team leader Arnaud Allibert told Reuters, adding they were leaving on Wednesday as their help was no longer needed.	distant_expectations_consequences
Indonesian governments are wary of being too open to outside help because they could face criticism from political opponents and there is particular resistance to the presence of foreign military personnel, as it could be seen as an infringement of sovereignty.	distant_expectations_consequences
“There are political sensitivities, especially with an election coming up, and sovereignty is another issue,” said Keith Loveard, a senior analyst with advisory and risk firm Concord Consulting, referring to polls due next year.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (20 Images)	error
Sulawesi is one of Indonesia’s five main islands.	cause_general
The archipelago sees frequent earthquakes and occasional tsunami.	distant_evaluation
In 2004, a quake off Sumatra island triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean that killed 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
Foreign governments and groups played a big role in aid efforts in 2004.	distant_historical
Perhaps as many as 5,000 victims of the 7.5 magnitude quake and tsunami on September 28 have yet to be found, most of them entombed in flows of mud flows that surged from the ground when the quake agitated the soil into a liquid mire.	distant_expectations_consequences
Most of the bodies have been found in the seaside city of Palu, on the west coast of Sulawesi island, 1,500 km (930 miles) northeast of the capital, Jakarta.	cause_general
More than 10,000 rescue workers are scouring expanses of debris, especially in three areas obliterated by soil liquefaction in the south of the small city.	cause_general
“We’re not sure what will happen afterwards, so we’re trying to work as fast as possible,” said rescue worker Ahmad Amin, 29, referring to the deadline, as he took a break in the badly hit Balaroa neighbourhood.	distant_anecdotal
At least nine excavators were working through the rubble of Balaroa on Tuesday, picking their way through smashed buildings and pummelled vehicles.	cause_general
At least a dozen bodies were recovered, a Reuters photographer said.	distant_evaluation
TEGUCIGALPA (Reuters) - An earthquake of magnitude 7.6 that struck near remote islands belonging to Honduras on Tuesday was felt across northern Central America but there were no immediate reports of casualties or major damage.	main
The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake, initially reported as a magnitude 7.8, was centered 125 miles (202 km)northeast of Barra Patuca in Honduras and 191 miles (307 km)southwest of George Town in the Cayman Islands.	cause_general
The quake was very shallow, at only 6.2 miles (10 km), which would have amplified its effect.	distant_evaluation
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center initially warned that tsunami waves up to 1 meter (3 feet) above tide level could hit parts of Honduras, Belize and Puerto Rico along with the U.S. and British Virgin Islands.	distant_expectations_consequences
About two hours after the quake, the center said the threat had passed, withdrawing all tsunami advisories connected with the quake.	cause_general
The tremors were felt in Belize City, but there were no immediate reports of damage.	main_consequence
Belize’s minister in charge of emergency management, Edmond Castro, spoke on local radio to urge people living in low lying coastal areas and islands to stay alert for potentially dangerous waves.	distant_evaluation
(The story was refiled to corrects paragraph 13: Belize City is not the capital of Belize)	error
The quake rattled windows in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa roughly 323 miles (519 km) to the east and was felt at least as far north as the Mexican state of Quintana Roo, but no damage was immediately reported.	main_consequence
Rodrigo Anaya Rodriguez was in a hammock inside his house near the popular tourist site of Bacalar Lake near Mexico’s Caribbean coast when he felt three tremors.	distant_anecdotal
“It felt like a bulldozer was driving past,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
“It didn’t last long but was very violent.”	distant_anecdotal
He ran to his balcony and saw electricity posts and cables swaying.	distant_anecdotal
In Honduras, firefighters said some residents in southern neighborhoods fled their homes after feeling the shaking.	distant_evaluation
The country operates a small naval base on Great Swan Island, about 27 miles (44 km) west of the quake’s epicenter, but it was not immediately clear how the tremors affected the station.	cause_general
“We have reports that it was felt in the majority of the country, but we don’t have reports of damage,” said Lizandro Rosales, director of Honduras’ contingencies commission.	cause_general
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan’s nuclear regulator has approved an operations extension for a 40-year-old reactor near Tokyo that was damaged in the same earthquake and tsunami that sparked the Fukushima disaster nearly eight years ago, a move likely to be controversial.	main
A call to mayoral staff on Wednesday went unanswered after office hours.	cause_general
Naka is one of five municipalities near Tokai village, where the reactor is located, that have an agreement with Japco to be consulted on any restart, although they don’t have veto rights.	cause_general
Tokai also has atomic research and other facilities, and was the site of a nuclear crisis in 1999, when workers at a processing plant not connected to Tokai Daini attempted to mix uranium in a bucket.	distant_historical
Two workers died and 300,000 people were told to stay indoors for up to 30 hours, after radiation escape into surrounding areas.	distant_historical
At the time it was the world’s worst nuclear incident since Chernobyl in 1986, based on an international rating scale.	distant_historical
Local opposition to the extension of the Tokai plant has been strong, according to Japanese media, although residents often will not give their views.	cause_general
“It’s very difficult to express one’s opinions around here,” said Alison Watts, an Australian who works as a translator and has lived in Tokai for 25 years.	distant_anecdotal
Watts said she was opposed to the restart because the design of the reactors is similar to those at Fukushima and because of the threat of more big earthquakes.	distant_anecdotal
A company spokesman told Reuters the nuclear operator will build a tsunami protection wall to fortify Tokai Daini.	distant_expectations_consequences
Japan Atomic must also complete safety upgrades, with a restart of the plant is not expected till the 2020s.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Employees of Kyushu Electric Power Co. hoist a fuel rod using a crane from a spent fuel pool at Sendai nuclear power station, in Satsumasendai, Kagoshima prefecture, Japan, July 8, 2015.	error
Japan Atomic will need the approval of Tokai and prefectural authorities as well before it can resume operations.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tokai Daini was operating when a massive earthquake struck off the northeast coast of Japan on March 11, 2011, creating a tsunami that swamped Tokyo Electric Power’s Fukushima Daichi station 113 kilometers to the north, causing explosions and meltdowns at three reactors.	distant_historical
The Tokai Daini plant shut down automatically but sustained damage, according to Japan Atomic.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Hitachi logos are seen on Electric Power Development Co. (J-Power) Oma Nuclear Power Station under construction in Oma town, Aomori prefecture, Japan December 4, 2015.	error
REUTERS/Kentaro Hamada	error
While the extension will be a further boost for Japan’s resurgent nuclear industry, the sector will still miss a government target of providing at least a fifth of the country’s electricity by 2030, an analysis by Reuters showed last week.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nine reactors have restarted, all of them pressurized water reactors located far from Tokyo, while the stigma of Fukushima still hangs over use of the older BWR technology.	cause_general
(For graphic on status of Japan's reactor fleet, click tmsnrt.rs/2OTpNfA)	error
REUTERS/Issei Kato	error
The reactor, Tokai Daini, also has the same basic design as those that melted down in the Fukushima crisis and will be the first boiling water reactor (BWR) to be approved for a lifetime extension of 20 years.	cause_general
The approval will be a boost for operator, Japan Atomic Power Co (Japco) [JATOM.UL], which is owned by the country’s main utilities and is bleeding cash because of the shutdown of its two nuclear power units.	distant_evaluation
Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority gave the green light to the extension on Wednesday, the regulator said.	main
Tokai Daini is 115 km (62 miles) northeast of central Tokyo, the closest reactor to the capital, and has nearly a million people living within a 30 kilometer radius.	cause_general
“It’s impossible to evacuate these people all at once, and no matter how much time is spent on them it won’t be possible to set up escape plans,” said Toru Umino, mayor of nearby Naka city, on Oct. 24 to a group of citizens opposed to nuclear power, according to a video posted on local media.	distant_expectations_consequences
Umino has been one of the few public officials to come out in opposition to the Tokai Daini extension.	cause_general
WILMINGTON/WILSON, N.C. (Reuters) - Deadly storm Florence drenched North Carolina with more downpours on Sunday, cutting off the coastal city of Wilmington, damaging tens of thousands of homes and threatening worse flooding as rivers fill to the bursting point.	main
“There are no roads ... that are leading into Wilmington that are passable because of the flooding that is taking place now inland,” Saffo said.	distant_evaluation
The National Weather Service issued a flash flood warning for the area until at least Monday morning and said up to 8 inches (20 cm) more rain could fall in some areas, creating an elevated risk for landslides in Western North Carolina.	main_consequence
Officials urged those who had evacuated to stay away.	distant_evaluation
“Our roads are flooded, there is no access into Wilmington,” New Hanover County Commission Chairman Woody White told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
“We want you home, but you can’t come yet.”	distant_evaluation
Oliver Kelly, 1 year old, cries as he is carried off the sheriff's airboat during his rescue from rising flood waters in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence in Leland, North Carolina, U.S., September 16, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Jonathan Drake	error
In Leland, a low-lying city north of Wilmington, homes and businesses were engulfed by water that rose up to 10 feet (3 meters) over Highway 17, submerging stop signs in what local people called unprecedented flooding.	distant_evaluation
The sheriff’s department and volunteers, including locals and some who came from Texas, rescued stranded residents by boat, extracting families, infants, the elderly and pets.	cause_general
Gas stations were abandoned and fallen trees made many roads impassable.	cause_general
The death toll rose to at least 17.	main_consequence
The whir of generators could be heard throughout the city, a sound not expected to dim soon as crews work to restore power.	distant_expectations_consequences
In New Bern, a riverfront city near North Carolina’s coast, Bryan Moore and his nephew Logan did exactly what authorities warned against: they left their homes to go swimming in the floodwaters after having spent days at home without electricity or running water.	distant_anecdotal
“We were stir-crazy from being inside so long,” Moore said.	distant_anecdotal
“Feels great.	distant_anecdotal
The water’s really cool.	distant_anecdotal
... We’re just having a good old time out here, enjoying the weather.”	distant_anecdotal
More than 641,000 homes and businesses were without electricity in North and South Carolina and surrounding states, down from a peak of nearly 1 million.	cause_general
Florence set a record in the state for rain from a hurricane, surpassing the previous record of 24 inches (61 cm) set by Hurricane Floyd, which killed 56 people in 1999, said Bryce Link, a meteorologist with private forecasting service DTN Marine Weather.	main_consequence
Slideshow (15 Images)	error
The storm killed at least 11 people in North Carolina, including a mother and child killed by a falling tree, state officials said.	main_consequence
Florence, a onetime hurricane that weakened to a tropical depression by Sunday, dumped up to 40 inches (100 cm) of rain on parts of North Carolina since Thursday, and continued to produce widespread heavy rain over much of North Carolina and eastern South Carolina, the National Weather Service said.	cause_general
Six people died in South Carolina, including four in car accidents and two from carbon monoxide from a portable generator.	main_consequence
South Carolina’s governor urged anyone in a flood-prone area to evacuate.	distant_evaluation
“Those rivers in North Carolina that have received heavy rainfall are coming our way,” Governor Henry McMaster said during a news conference.	distant_expectations_consequences
“They have not even begun (to crest).	distant_evaluation
But they will.	distant_expectations_consequences
And the question is how high will the water be, and we do not know.”	distant_evaluation
By Sunday night, Florence’s winds had dropped to about 30 miles per hour (45 kph), the National Hurricane Center said, with some weakening forecast over the next 24 hours before intensifying once again as an extratropical low-pressure center.The center of the storm was about 45 miles (70 km) north-northeast of Greenville and moving north at 10 mph (17 kph), the hurricane center said.	cause_general
“The storm has never been more dangerous than it is right now,” North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
Many rivers “are still rising, and are not expected to crest until later today or tomorrow.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Some rivers were not expected to crest until Monday or Tuesday, the National Weather Service said.	distant_expectations_consequences
More than 900 people were rescued from rising floodwaters and 15,000 remained in shelters in the state, Cooper said.	cause_general
Many of those rescues took place on swift boats in Wilmington, a historic coastal city of about 117,000 people on a peninsula between the Cape Fear River and the Atlantic Ocean.	cause_general
Rescue crews negotiated downed trees and power lines to reach stranded residents, Mayor Bill Saffo told WHQR radio.	cause_general
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A 6.3 magnitude earthquake struck off the northeast coast of an island of the Pacific Ocean nation of Papua New Guinea on Saturday, officials said, but the tremor posed no tsunami threat to the region.	main
The impoverished country is also missing its largest revenue earner, after the quake forced a shutdown of Exxon Mobil Corp’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) project, which has annual sales of $3 billion at current LNG prices.	cause_general
The firm is still assessing quake damage at its facilities.	cause_general
There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties from the quake, which was centered in a much more remote region than a magnitude 7.5 tremor that rocked the country’s mountainous mainland highlands on Feb. 26, killing 100 people.	cause_general
The epicenter of Saturday’s quake was located 180 kilometers (112 miles) southwest of Rabaul on New Britain island, some 900 km northeast of the capital Port Moresby, at a depth of 68 km (40 miles), the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) said.	cause_general
The quake was revised down from an initial reading of magnitude 6.8 and a depth of 60 km.	cause_general
“Based on all available data a destructive Pacific-wide tsunami is not expected,” the Hawaii-based Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said in a bulletin.	distant_expectations_consequences
Quakes are common in Papua New Guinea, which sits on the Pacific’s “Ring of Fire”, a hotspot for seismic activity due to friction between tectonic plates.	distant_evaluation
Rabaul lies in the shadow of Mount Tavurvur, an active volcano that destroyed the town in 1994 during a severe eruption.	cause_general
The latest quake comes as Papua New Guinea struggles to get aid to desperate survivors of the Feb. 26 quake, which flattened whole villages and spoiled water supplies on the country’s main island.	cause_general
A month on, disaster and relief officials say the scale of the emergency is testing the finances and capacity of one of the world’s poorest countries.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK (Reuters) - False tsunami warnings flashed on cellphones along the U.S. East and Gulf Coasts on Tuesday morning when a U.S. National Weather Service (NWS) systems test went awry, unnerving Americans from Maine to Texas.	main
At least some people who clicked the alert to read the full message saw a disclaimer that the alert was in fact a test, according to screenshots posted online.	cause_general
AccuWeather said the National Weather Service wrongly coded the test as a real warning, confusing its automated alerts system.	distant_evaluation
“AccuWeather has the most sophisticated system for passing on NWS tsunami warnings based on a complete computer scan of the codes used by the NWS,” the company said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“While the words ‘TEST’ were in the header, the actual codes read by computers used coding for real warning, indicating it was a real warning.”	distant_evaluation
AccuWeather said it had warned the National Weather Service in 2014 of this vulnerability after a similar error.	distant_historical
The National Weather Service said its investigation confirmed the message was coded as a test.	distant_evaluation
“We are working with private sector companies to determine why some systems did not recognize the coding.	distant_evaluation
Private sector partners perform a valuable service in disseminating warnings to the public.	distant_evaluation
We will continue to work with our partners to prevent this from occurring again,” NWS said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
An AccuWeather spokesman could not be reached late Tuesday to respond.	cause_general
The false alerts appeared to have been sent by the private forecasting company AccuWeather, according to cellphone images posted on social media.	cause_general
It was not clear how many people saw the false alerts.	distant_evaluation
Residents of the West Coast were warned in January to brace for a possible tsunami after an earthquake off the coast of Alaska.	cause_general
The warnings were later lifted and no significant damage was reported.	cause_general
AccuWeather pointed the finger at the NWS.	distant_evaluation
“Yikes!” Trish Milburn, a writer of romance novels who lives on Florida’s Gulf Coast, wrote on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
“That warning is not what you want to see when you live less than 10 feet (3 meters) above sea level.”	distant_evaluation
It was not the first time this year Americans were roused by their cellphones warning of an impending catastrophe.	distant_evaluation
Last month’s false alarm was a missile headed for Hawaii.	cause_general
The National Weather Service said its National Tsunami Warning Center issued a routine monthly test message that was misconstrued, spooking people in cities as far apart as Boston and Houston.	distant_evaluation
“The test message was released by at least one private sector company as an official Tsunami Warning, resulting in widespread reports of tsunami warnings received via phones and other media across the East Coast, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean,” the service said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
PALU, Indonesia (Reuters) - Survivors of Indonesia’s double disaster looked to their future with frustration and despair on Wednesday as the government outlined plans to begin reconstruction of homes for tens of thousands of people.	main
Are we going to be relocated, will there be help to move people back?	distant_anecdotal
There’s no certainty,” said Hidayat, standing in a heavily damaged garage where he works part-time with other young men, trying to salvage auto parts from the debris.	distant_anecdotal
Another Balaroa resident, Hesti Andayani, 27, was sitting and crying on tiles that she said used to be part of her bedroom.	distant_anecdotal
It was her first trip home since the earthquake struck, killing her younger sister.	distant_anecdotal
“I don’t know what we’ll do.	distant_anecdotal
We don’t have any money.	distant_anecdotal
I’ll have to find a job but I don’t know where we can live,” she said.	distant_anecdotal
Rescue teams were working with residents to try to identify where victims could be.	cause_general
But it’s guesswork because of how far the ground moved during liquefaction.	distant_evaluation
No one knows how many people have yet to be found in Balaroa and other neighborhoods but it could be as many as 5,000, the disaster agency says.	distant_expectations_consequences
A teddy bear hangs next to earthquake and tsunami damaged property along the waterfront in Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia October 10, 2018.	error
BODY BAGS	cause_general
Twenty-six bodies were found on Tuesday but the number seemed to fall off on Wednesday.	cause_general
Reuters reporters saw only two victims being carried out in plastic body bags.	distant_evaluation
The government has called off the search for bodies from Thursday, citing concern about the spread of disease.	cause_general
That has angered many relatives of the missing but it will focus the efforts of authorities on the next phase - rebuilding.	distant_evaluation
“Reconstruction and rehabilitation are scheduled to start in early November,” Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, spokesman for the national disaster mitigation agency, told a briefing in Jakarta.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said data was being compiled and mapping done to help determine where houses should be built.	distant_expectations_consequences
The danger of tsunamis near the coast in the north of the city and of soil liquefaction in the south are the major worries.	distant_evaluation
Areas hit by liquefaction will be turned into parks and sports fields and memorials.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nugroho declined to speculate on how long it would take to build new houses.	cause_general
REUTERS/Darren Whiteside	error
The chief executive of the World Bank, Kristalina Georgieva, offered Indonesia various help on Wednesday including financing for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing and neighborhood-level infrastructure and services.	cause_general
Slideshow (12 Images)	error
Georgieva made the offer in talks with Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla on the sidelines of annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund on the resort island of Bali.	cause_general
Sulawesi is one of Indonesia’s five main islands.	cause_general
The archipelago sees frequent earthquakes and occasional tsunami.	distant_evaluation
In 2004, a quake off the north Indonesia island of Sumatra triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean that killed 226,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia.	distant_historical
The official death toll from a 7.5 magnitude earthquake and tsunami on Sept. 28 has risen to 2,045, with more bodies being found as some 10,000 rescuers scour ruins in the seaside city of Palu.	cause_general
More than 82,000 people were displaced in the worst-hit city of Palu, 1,500 km (930 miles) northeast of the capital, Jakarta, and 67,000 homes destroyed or damaged.	cause_specific
Many survivors are living in shelters made out of salvaged wood and plastic in the city and surrounding hills, where they wait and wonder what will happen to them.	cause_general
“They keep saying there’s going to be compensation, but where is it?” asked student Ahmad Hidayat.	distant_anecdotal
Hidayat is from the city’s Balaroa district, which was devastated by liquefaction, which happens when an earthquake violently shakes soft, damp soil, turning solid ground into a viscous, roiling liquid.	distant_anecdotal
“What are the plans?	distant_anecdotal
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan has acknowledged for the first time that a worker at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, destroyed by an earthquake and tsunami more than seven years ago, died from radiation exposure.	main
Tokyo Electric is facing a string of legal cases seeking compensation over the disaster.	cause_general
A 9.0 magnitude earthquake struck in March 2011, triggering a tsunami that killed some 18,000 people and the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl 25 years earlier.	distant_historical
The Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry ruled on Friday that compensation should be paid to the family of the man in his 50s who died from lung cancer, an official told Reuters by phone.	main_consequence
The worker had spent his career working at nuclear plants around Japan and worked at the Fukushima Daiichi plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power at least twice after the March 2011 meltdowns at the station.	cause_specific
He was diagnosed with cancer in February 2016, the official said.	distant_historical
The ministry had previously ruled exposure to radiation caused the illnesses of four workers at Fukushima, the official said.	cause_general
This was the first death, he said.	main
More than 160,000 people were forced from their homes after the meltdowns at the plant.	distant_historical
Hundreds of deaths have been attributed to the chaos of evacuations during the crisis and because of the hardship and mental trauma refugees have experienced since then, but the government had said that radiation was not a cause.	distant_evaluation
ATHENS (Reuters) - A powerful earthquake shook western Greece early on Friday, damaging a port and a 15th century monastery, but causing no major injuries, officials and local media said.	main
“We are not facing any particular problems,” Zakynthos Mayor Pavlos Kolokotsas told Greek state broadcaster ERT.	distant_evaluation
“Calm is being restored.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Extensive damage was avoided because quake-prone Zakynthos had adopted seismic protection codes in construction, said Efthymios Lekkas, head of Greece’s Earthquake Planning and Protection Organisation.	distant_evaluation
“The energy unleashed, based on the angle of the faultline, fanned out towards Italy,” he added.	distant_evaluation
Italy’s Il Messaggero online news site said the quake was felt hundreds of kilometers away in southern Italy.	main_consequence
Firefighters in Calabria, Puglia and Sicily received thousands of telephone calls from worried locals.	main_consequence
Zakynthos was all but destroyed in a 6.8 tremor in 1953.	distant_historical
More than 140 people were killed in an earthquake north of Athens in 1999.	distant_historical
Slideshow (6 Images)	error
The quake was fairly shallow, according to the USGS, just 14 km (8.7 miles) below the seabed, which would have amplified shaking.	distant_evaluation
The quake sent out tremors felt as far afield as Libya, Italy, Malta and Albania.	main_consequence
It struck at 1:54 a.m. (2254 GMT, Thursday).	cause_general
Greece straddles two tectonic plates and often suffers earthquakes.	cause_general
The EMSC European quake agency said sea levels had risen slightly, by about 20 cm (7.87 inches), but the increase could be higher locally.	main_consequence
It later tweeted sea level changes were also observed in Italy.	main_consequence
Greek authorities initially issued a tsunami warning then withdrew the alert.	cause_general
The magnitude 6.4 quake struck in the Ionian Sea, 50 km (31 miles) south of the island of Zakynthos, also known as Zante, Greece’s Geodynamic Institute reported.	cause_general
The U.S. Geological Survey rated the magnitude at 6.8.	cause_general
Three people were taken to hospital on the island, two of them slightly injured, a spokesman for Greece’s civil protection agency said.	main_consequence
A series of aftershocks, the highest at 5.6, rattled the island and power was briefly disrupted.	main_consequence
Tremors damaged a 15th-century monastery on the nearby islands of Strofades, local media in Zakynthos reported.	main_consequence
They also left large cracks in the port of Zakynthos, though authorities there said operations would continue as usual.	main_consequence
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A powerful magnitude 7 undersea earthquake struck east of New Caledonia’s Loyalty Islands in the South Pacific on Monday, sending small tsunamis towards New Caledonia and neighboring Vanuatu, where authorities ordered evacuations.	main
New Caledonia’s civil security agency made no plans to evacuate coastal places immediately.	cause_general
Authorities in Australia, New Zealand and Hawaii said there were no tsunami threats to the coastlines of those countries.	cause_general
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) in Hawaii issued a tsunami warning for coastlines within 300 kms (186 mile) of the epicenter, but later said the danger had largely passed.	main_consequence
Monday’s quake, initially reported as magnitude 7.3, struck at a shallow depth of 10 km (six miles) about 82 kms (51 miles) east of New Caledonia.	cause_general
It was the second major tremor in the same area in just over 12 hours and the third in the past month.	cause_general
“We are a little bit scared, we have had an earthquake last night and today it was quite a big one,” said Wayan Rigault, communications manager at Hotel Nengone Village on the island of Mare, which is the closest landmass to the epicenter.	distant_evaluation
Rigault said there was no immediate damage, but guests were on alert for a formal evacuation warning.	distant_expectations_consequences
Small tsunamis were detected and waves may have reached up to one meter (three feet) above the high tide level in parts of New Caledonia and smaller in Vanuatu, the PTWC said.	distant_evaluation
“Minor sea level fluctuations...may continue over the next few hours,” a statement from the agency said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Vanuatu’s National Disaster Management Office advised people in southern provinces to evacuate coastal areas for higher ground..	main_consequence
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Up to 80 percent of Thailand’s tsunami warning system needs maintenance work, the deputy director-general of its disaster prevention department said on Monday, more than a decade after the region was hit by a tsunami that killed 226,000 people.	main
“Batteries need to be changed,” he added, “I’ve ordered that this needs to be done urgently particularly in the southern region which is a tourist region.	distant_evaluation
There might be some places where the equipment is damaged but not many places.”	distant_evaluation
Prasert Kunneang, public relations officer at the National Disaster Warning Center in Bangkok, said the tsunami warning system is tested daily and Thailand is prepared in the event of a future tsunami.	distant_expectations_consequences
“If there is a tsunami tomorrow, the warning system would work,” Prasert told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
With its picturesque beaches, gilded palaces and temples and balmy climate, Thailand remains a firm foreign tourist favorite.	distant_evaluation
Tourism accounts for 12 percent of Thailand’s economic output, and has been a rare bright spot for Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy, whose growth has lagged peers in recent years.	cause_general
Other forms of communication will be used to warn people about a tsunami while the equipment undergoes maintenance, said Prasert, including television and radio announcements.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO - Tourists wade through shallow water on the beach in Khao Lak in Thailand's Phang Nga province that was badly hit by 2004 tsunami, December 15, 2014.	error
REUTERS/Damir Sagolj	error
A 9.15 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Sumatra in Indonesia on Dec. 26, 2004 and triggered a massive tsunami that caused large scaled destruction and loss of life throughout the Indian Ocean.	distant_historical
Popular tourist destination Thailand was among the worst affected, along with Indonesia, India and Sri Lanka.	distant_historical
Many of the 5,395 people killed in Thailand were foreign tourists holidaying along the shores of its idyllic islands and beaches.	distant_historical
Thailand’s warning system includes warning towers, a network of detection buoys in the sea and public announcement systems.	cause_general
“Around 70 to 80 percent, or around 2,000 pieces, need to be taken care of.	distant_evaluation
We set up this system since 2006 so it needs to be maintained,” Kobchai Boonyaorana, deputy director-general of the Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Department, told Reuters, referring to various equipment.	distant_evaluation
SEMBALUN, Indonesia (Reuters) - A powerful 6.4 magnitude earthquake struck the popular tourist island of Lombok in Indonesia on Sunday killing 14 people and sending villagers fleeing from their beds into open fields to avoid collapsing buildings.	main
Suddenly everything simply collapsed,” said Siti Sumarni, a Sembalun resident.	distant_anecdotal
“My child was inside the house, thankfully he survived.”	distant_anecdotal
Damage is seen following an earthquake in Lombok, Indonesia, July 29, 2018 in this picture obtained from social media.	error
Lalu Onank/Social Media via REUTERS	error
Standing outside a green tent set up on a dusty field, she said nothing was left of her house.	distant_anecdotal
Video footage showed ambulances lining the streets of Lombok and many houses damaged with only parts of brick walls standing.	cause_general
“We jumped out of our beds to avoid anything falling on our heads,” said Jean-Paul Volckaert who runs a hotel near Senggigi on the western side of Lombok.	distant_anecdotal
“I’ve been walking around but so far there is no damage.	distant_anecdotal
We were very surprised as the water in the pools was swaying like a wild sea.	distant_anecdotal
There were waves in the pools but only for 20 to 30 seconds,” he told Reuters by telephone.	distant_anecdotal
The quake, which rocked the island early in the morning when many people were still asleep, injured 162 people and damaged thousands of houses.	main_consequence
A magnitude 6.4 earthquake is considered strong and is capable of causing severe damage.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Lombok quake struck at 6:47 a.m. (2247 GMT on Saturday) and was only 4.35 miles deep (7 km), a shallow depth that would have amplified its effect.	cause_general
It was centered 50 km (31 miles) northeast of the city of Mataram, according to the U.S. Geological Survey, but it was also felt strongly to the west on the neighboring island of Bali, Indonesia’s top tourist destination.	cause_general
Over a hundred of subsequent tremors were recorded, with the largest aftershock recorded at 5.7 magnitude, Indonesia’s Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysics Agency said.	cause_general
Slideshow (13 Images)	error
The earthquake was on land and did not trigger any waves or tsunami.	cause_general
Earthquakes are common in Indonesia, which is located on the seismically active “Ring of Fire” that surrounds the shores of the Pacific Ocean.	distant_evaluation
Electricity was cut off in the worst-hit area, Sembalun, a sparsely populated area of rice paddies and the slopes of Mount Rinjani on the northern side of the island.	main_consequence
A 30-year-old Malaysian woman visiting Mount Rinjani, a popular trekking destination, was among those killed, said Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, the disaster mitigation agency spokesman.	main_consequence
He said the area was temporarily closed to climbers because there were reports of landslides.	cause_general
Hundreds of climbers are being evacuated from the Rinjani national park and 115 have been safely escorted out, Nugroho said.	cause_general
“The most pressing needs now are medical personnel, stretchers, health equipment, kids wares and food,” Nugroho said.	distant_evaluation
An emergency tent was set up on a street in Sembalun to treat the injured because the local hospital was damaged, and those in a critical condition were taken to other hospitals.	cause_general
“It happened so suddenly at around 6 in the morning.	distant_anecdotal
(Reuters) - A magnitude 7.8 earthquake hit 105 km east-southeast of Suva, Fiji, at a depth of 608 km, the U.S. Geological Survey said on Thursday.	main
The measure was revised downward from an initial magnitude 8.1 reading by USGS.	cause_general
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said no destructive Pacific-wide tsunami was expected, and there was no tsunami threat to Hawaii.	distant_expectations_consequences
New Zealand’s Ministry of Civil Defence and Emergency Management said there was no tsunami threat to New Zealand following the earthquake.	cause_general
TOKYO (Reuters) - A powerful earthquake rocked northern Japan early on Tuesday, briefly disrupting cooling functions at a nuclear plant and generating a small tsunami that hit the same Fukushima region devastated by a 2011 quake, tsunami and nuclear disaster.	main
The U.S. Geological Survey measured Tuesday’s quake at magnitude 6.9, down from an initial 7.3.	cause_general
All Japan’s nuclear power plants in the area have been shut down in the wake of the March 2011 disaster, which knocked out cooling systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, causing reactors to melt down and spew radiation into the air, soil and sea.	main_consequence
The cooling system for a storage pool for spent nuclear fuel at the reactor at its Fukushima Daini Plant was initially halted on Tuesday, said a spokeswoman for Tokyo Electric Power, known as Tepco, but was restarted soon after.	main_consequence
Only two reactors are operating in Japan, both in the southwest.	cause_general
Nuclear plants need cooling systems operating even when in shutdown to keep spent fuel cool.	cause_general
Tohoku Electric Power Co said there was no damage to its Onagawa nuclear plant, while the Kyodo news agency reported there were no irregularities at the Tokai Daini nuclear plant in Ibaraki prefecture.	cause_general
COAST EVACUATED	distant_evaluation
Japanese Minister for Disaster Management Jun Matsumoto told reporters there had been no reports of significant injuries.	cause_general
One woman suffered cuts to her head from falling dishes, Kyodo reported, citing fire department officials.	cause_general
A tidal surge is seen in Sunaoshi River after tsunami advisories were issued following an earthquake in Tagajo, Miyagi prefecture, Japan November 22, 2016, in this video grab image released by Miyagi Prefectural Police via Kyodo.	error
The magnitude 7.4 earthquake, which was felt in Tokyo, sent thousands of residents fleeing for higher ground as dawn broke along the northeastern coast.	main_consequence
Mandatory credit Miyagi Prefectural Police/Kyodo/via REUTERS	error
Earthquakes are common in Japan, one of the world’s most seismically active areas.	distant_evaluation
Japan accounts for about 20 percent of the world’s earthquakes of magnitude 6 or greater.	cause_general
The March 11, 2011, quake was magnitude 9, the strongest quake ever recorded in Japan.	distant_historical
The massive tsunami it generated knocked out the Fukushima Daiichi plant, causing the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl a quarter of a century earlier.	distant_historical
Systems have been updated since the 2011 disaster to spread warnings more quickly, said Tsunetaka Omine, head of the Disaster Management Division in Iwaki, a city in Fukushima prefecture.	distant_evaluation
Previously, there were complicated directions on where to evacuate.	distant_evaluation
“But now, we basically just tell people to head away from the sea, to the highest possible ground,” Omine said.	distant_evaluation
Authorities now also send tsunami warnings to every mobile phone in the area and broadcast on local radio.	cause_general
Staying in a traditional Japanese inn on the coast in the city of Ofunato with a dozen international high school students on a study tour, teacher Kathy Krauth said the shaking began just seconds after a quake alarm on her phone went off.	distant_anecdotal
There were no reports of deaths or serious injuries hours after the quake hit at 5:59 a.m. (2059 GMT Monday).	cause_general
“I felt like the lessons of 3-11 were really taken to heart,” said Krauth, who teaches a class on the March 2011 disaster and its aftermath.	distant_anecdotal
“The feeling was, we just don’t know, but we’re going to be as cautious as we can.”	distant_anecdotal
Nissan Motor Co said it would suspend work at its engine factory in Fukushima at least until the latest tsunami warning was lifted.	distant_expectations_consequences
A spokesman said there were no injuries or damage at the plant, which was badly damaged in the 2011 disaster.	cause_general
Slideshow (8 Images)	error
Toyota Motor Corp said all its factories in northeastern Japan were operating as usual.	cause_general
Japan’s famous Shinkansen bullet trains were halted along one stretch of track and some other train lines were also stopped.	main_consequence
Japanese financial markets were little affected, with the Nikkei 225 index closing up 0.3 percent and the yen steady against the U.S. dollar.	cause_general
It was centered off the coast of Fukushima prefecture at a depth of about 10 kilometers (6 miles), the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) said.	cause_general
A wave of up to 1.4 meters (4.5 ft) high was recorded at Sendai, about 70 km (45 miles) north of Fukushima, with smaller waves hitting ports elsewhere along the coast, public broadcaster NHK said.	main_consequence
Television footage showed ships moving out to sea from harbors as tsunami warnings wailed after alerts of waves of up to 3 meters (10 feet) were issued.	cause_general
“We saw high waves but nothing that went over the tidal barriers,” a man in the city of Iwaki told NTV television network.	distant_anecdotal
Aerial footage showed tsunami waves flowing up rivers in some areas, and some fishing boats were overturned in the port of Higashi-Matsushima before the JMA lifted its warnings.	main_consequence
Related Coverage Bitter lessons of Japan's 2011 tsunami put to use with latest quake	error
RALEIGH, N.C./NEW YORK (Reuters) - Tropical Storm Florence could taint North Carolina waterways with murky coal ash and toxic hog waste as heavy rains test environmental rules written with milder weather in mind, carrying the risk of contaminating water with bacteria like salmonella, officials said on Friday.	main
Sixteen lagoons flooded under the foot of rain that came with Hurricane Matthew in 2016.	distant_historical
The southeast part of the state is expected to get more than twice that amount in the days ahead, said Bryce Link, a meteorologist at DTN Marine Weather, a forecasting service.	distant_expectations_consequences
There are 62 industrial hog farms within North Carolina’s 100-year floodplain, environmentalists estimate, and Duke Energy Corp has four coal ash sites in the coastal area touched by Florence.	cause_general
If excrement escapes from the lagoons where it is stored, it could potentially contaminate drinking water with bacteria like salmonella, which can cause digestive problems, and, in certain vulnerable patients cause E. coli.	main
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is working with storm-struck states and is ready to respond to any breaches, a spokeswoman, Maggie Sauerhage, said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Animal feeding operations above a certain size need to be “designed and operated to handle the rainfall and runoff from 25-year 24-hour storms,” Sauerhage said in an emailed response to questions from Reuters.	cause_general
Even in the midst of a storm, these feeding sites must report leaks, she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In North Carolina, hog and poultry waste pits make up 6,848 acres of land according to a report from the Environmental Working Group.	cause_general
Still, North Carolina has fewer flood-prone hog farms than it did when Hurricane Floyd inundated about 50 sites in 1999 and sparked statewide reforms.	cause_general
Ash pits and other embankments have ruptured under heavy rain in the past, and Duke Energy has agreed to secure the sites in North Carolina’s lowland areas - but that work is ongoing.	cause_general
A downed tree blocks a local street during the passing of Hurricane Florence the town of New Bern, North Carolina, U.S., September 14, 2018.	error
Erin Culbert, a spokeswoman for Duke Energy, said the utility was ready to respond as needed to the storm.	distant_evaluation
There is, however, disagreement over the risk posed by Florence.	distant_evaluation
Andy Curliss, head of the North Carolina Pork Council, said spill dangers are overblown, noting that hog farmers have faced severe weather before.	distant_evaluation
“This is not the first hurricane to hit North Carolina,” said Curliss, who noted that many lagoons are at a low point across the state at this time of year.	distant_evaluation
But a state lawmaker said that hurricanes have led to dangerous spills in recent years and North Carolina’s laws are too lax to confront severe storms such as Florence.	distant_evaluation
“As a state, we have put our head in the sand,” Representative Pricey Harrison said.	distant_evaluation
“Past storms should have been a wakeup call.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz	error
Many of the state’s environmental codes were written to withstand a 25- or 100-year storm.	cause_general
But Florence promises heavy rains that some regions might not see in a thousand years, straining systems meant to keep state residents safe.	cause_specific
The deluge could push industrial waste sites to the limit, Governor Roy Cooper said on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
“All of the infrastructure here is going to be tested,” Cooper told a news conference.	distant_evaluation
“We are deeply concerned about the inland flooding.”	distant_evaluation
Florence would not be the first test of North Carolina manure pits, or “lagoons.”	distant_evaluation
HONG KONG/MANILA (Reuters) - A super typhoon made landfall in China’s Guangdong on Sunday, the country’s most populous province, after wreaking havoc in Hong Kong and Macau and killing potentially more than 50 people in the Philippines.	main
“It’s the worst I’ve seen,” resident Martin Wong told Reuters.	distant_anecdotal
“I’ve not seen the roads flood like this (and) the windows shake like this before.”	distant_anecdotal
Flight cancellations at Hong Kong’s international airport, a major regional hub, disrupted the plans of tens of thousands of travellers.	main_consequence
Airlines such as flagship carrier Cathay Pacific (0293.HK) cancelled many flights last week.	cause_general
Damaged windows of the One Harbourfront office tower are seen following Typhoon Mangkhut, in Hong Kong, China September 16, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Bobby Yip	error
In the Philippines, casualties reported by various agencies on Sunday evening indicate the death toll from the impact of Mangkhut could exceed 50, with most killed in landslides in or near mountainous areas of the Cordillera region.	distant_expectations_consequences
Francis Tolentino, an advisor to President Rodrigo Duterte and head of the government’s disaster coordination, said the latest number of casualties was 33 dead and 56 missing.	main_consequence
But the head of the military’s Northern Luzon Command, Emmanuel Salamat, told Reuters that at least 19 more were killed in landslides in one part of Benguet province.	main_consequence
The 19 who died were part of a bigger group of 43 people, likely miners, and those who were still alive were feared to be trapped in an old mining bunkhouse that had collapsed under rubble, Salamat said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Packing winds of more than 200 kph (125 mph) at its peak, tropical cyclone Mangkhut is considered the strongest to hit the region this year.	cause_general
Search and rescue missions were ongoing, and a local mayor in Benguet, Victorio Palangdan, said he feared the number killed there could be more than 100.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separately, the coastguard said it had recovered the bodies of three people.	main_consequence
In Macau, which took the unprecedented step of halting casino gambling late on Saturday, there was serious flooding of up to 2.5 metres, authorities said, with some people having to be rescued from homes on rubber dinghies.	main_consequence
“The suspension is for the safety of casino employees, visitors to the city, and residents,” said authorities in the world’s largest gambling hub, who faced criticism last year after a typhoon that killed nine and caused severe damage.	distant_evaluation
Around 20,000 Macau households also suffered a power blackout, local media reported.	main_consequence
Slideshow (17 Images)	error
GRAPHIC - Typhoon Mangkhut: tmsnrt.rs/2oZmnIS	main
“KING OF STORMS”	cause_general
The typhoon, dubbed the “King of Storms” by Chinese media, made landfall in Haiyan town at 5 p.m. local time, weather officials said.	cause_general
Ports, oil refineries and industrial plants in the area have been shut.	main_consequence
Its strength outstripped that of Hurricane Florence, which achieved maximum sustained winds of 150 kph (90 mph) when it roared into North Carolina in the United States on Friday.	cause_general
Power to some areas was also reduced as a precaution.	main_consequence
In Shenzhen, the electricity supply to more than 130,000 homes was cut at one point on Sunday.	main_consequence
The storm has fuelled concern about sugar production in Guangdong, which accounts for a tenth of national output at about 1 million tonnes.	cause_general
China sugar futures CSRcv1 rose last week on fears for the cane crop.	cause_general
Guangdong is also China’s most populous province, with a population of more than 100 million.	cause_general
According to state media, two people were killed in Guangdong due to the typhoon as of 8:00 p.m. local time.	main_consequence
More than 2.45 million people have been relocated and over 48,000 fishing boats called back to port in the province.	main_consequence
Work at more than 29,000 construction sites has been suspended.	main_consequence
State television showed scenes of crashing waves, inundated streets and trees half-bent by the strong winds as Mangkhut unleashed its power.	cause_general
Shenzhen airport, shut since midnight, will be closed until 8:00 a.m. (2400 GMT) on Monday.	main_consequence
The eye of Mangkhut, the Thai name for Southeast Asia’s mangosteen fruit, skirted 100 kms (62 miles) south of Hong Kong but the former British colony was still caught in the typhoon’s swirling bands of rain and gale-force winds.	cause_general
Flights have also been cancelled in Guangzhou and the island of Hainan, China’s southernmost province.	main_consequence
High winds and swells also hit Fujian province north of Guangdong, shutting ports, suspending ferry services and cancelling more than 100 flights.	main_consequence
Waves as high as 7.3 metres (24 ft) were sighted in the Taiwan Strait, the official Xinhua news agency reported.	cause_general
Travelling at 30 kph (19 mph), Mangkhut will continue on its northwesterly track, bringing heavy rain and winds to the autonomous region of Guangxi early on Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
It is expected to weaken into a tropical depression when it reaches southwestern Yunnan province the early hours of Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Hong Kong raised its highest No.	main_consequence
10 typhoon signal mid-morning as ferocious winds uprooted trees and smashed windows in office and residential buildings, some of which swayed in the gusts, residents said.	main_consequence
“It swayed for quite a long time, at least two hours.	distant_anecdotal
It made me feel so dizzy,” said Elaine Wong, who lives in a high-rise tower in Kowloon.	distant_anecdotal
Water levels surged 3.5 m (12 ft) in some places and waves swamped roads and threw up live fish, washing into some residential blocks and a mall in the eastern Heng Fa Chuen district.	main_consequence
(Reuters) - Tropical storm Florence continued to wreck havoc with the FEI World Equestrian Games (WEG) in Tryon, North Carolina on Sunday wiping all of the day’s scheduled events.	main
Show jumping, the final discipline of the eventing competition, was moved to Monday while the dressage freestyle was canceled on Saturday and will not be rescheduled.	main
The dressage freestyle, an Olympic event, becomes the second competition to be canceled and no medals awarded after the endurance competition was canceled on Wednesday due to dangerous heat and humidity.	cause_general
“This was not an easy decision,” said Tryon 2018 organizing committee president Michael Stone said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“But we have explored every option, including trying to reschedule the horse departures, and even looking at moving the competition into the indoor with a change of footing, but the logistics of making all this happen are just not possible.	distant_evaluation
“The weather has simply left us with no choice.	distant_evaluation
“Horse welfare has to be the top priority and flying the horses out on the same day as competition doesn’t work, so sadly the decision to cancel the Freestyle had to be taken.”	distant_evaluation
Florence, which crashed into the state as a hurricane on Friday, bringing record rainfall continues to drench the Tryon International Equestrian Center with the National Weather Service issuing a flash flood warning through Monday for the Tryon area.	cause_specific
Conditions, however, are expected to improve dramatically from Tuesday allowing the WEG, which concludes on Sunday with the individual show jumping, to complete the remaining events without further disruption.	distant_expectations_consequences
KOCHI/BENGALURU, India (Reuters) - The worst floods in a century in the Indian state of Kerala have killed 164 people and forced more than 200,000 into relief camps, officials said on Friday, with the toll expected to rise as heavy rain pushes water levels higher still.	main
Further heavy rainfall has been forecast for most parts of the state on Saturday, and authorities said they planned to implement controlled releases of water from dams to manage flows and minimize damage.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rains are expected to subside to “light to moderate” levels on Sunday, India’s weather office said.	distant_expectations_consequences
GRAPHIC - Map: tmsnrt.rs/2OKhKNt	error
People wait for aid on the roof of their house at a flooded area in the southern state of Kerala, India, August 17, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Sivaram V	error
STRANDED AND DESPERATE	cause_general
A Reuters witness in a relief helicopter in Chengannur, a town in southern Kerala, saw people stranded on roof tops and waving desperately for help.	cause_general
“The town looked like an island dotted with houses and cars submerged in muddy flood waters and downed coconut trees,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Two circling navy helicopters dropped food and water in metal baskets and airlifted out at least four people, including a three-year-old child.	cause_general
Anil Vasudevan, the head of the Kerala health disaster response wing, said his department had geared up to meet victims’ needs.	distant_evaluation
As the southwestern coastal state’s chief minister sought military reinforcements to boost rescue efforts, a disaster management official said that, since the monsoon season started about three months ago, more than 320 people had died due to flooding and landslides.	cause_general
“We’ve deployed adequate doctors and staff and provided all essential medicines in the relief camps,” he said.	distant_evaluation
His teams were also making arrangements to minimize the risk of people contracting water-borne diseases once they return home after the floodwaters subside.	distant_expectations_consequences
The rains have also disrupted transport networks in Kerala, a major destination for domestic and foreign tourists.	cause_general
The flooded airport in the main commercial city Kochi has suspended operations until Aug. 26, and rail and road traffic has been interrupted in many places.	cause_general
“Water levels continue to overflow on tracks and surpassing the danger level of bridges at different places,” Southern Railway said in a statement, adding it had canceled more than a dozen trains.	cause_general
Some crops have also been inundated.	cause_general
The state is a major producer of rubber, tea, coffee and spices such as black pepper and cardamom.	cause_general
Slideshow (9 Images)	error
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter he would travel to Kerala “to take stock of the unfortunate situation”.	cause_general
GRAPHIC - Kerala underwater : tmsnrt.rs/2L0MiIw	error
As the waters have risen, many people have found it increasingly hard to access food and other basic amenities, or to reach safety.	distant_evaluation
“In some areas, airlifting is the only option... thousands are still marooned,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.	distant_evaluation
Vijayan said he was hoping the military could step up its support for rescuers already using dozens of helicopters and hundreds of boats.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I spoke to the defense minister this morning and asked for more helicopters,” he told a news conference in the state capital, Thiruvananthapuram, adding that he planned to send 11 more helicopters to the worst-hit areas.	distant_evaluation
During the current monsoon, Kerala has been hit with over a third more rain than average, according to India’s weather office.	cause_general
Vijayan said the floods were the worst in a century.	cause_specific
In the latest bout that began nine days ago, 164 people have died and some 223,000 moved into more than 1,500 relief camps, Vijayan said.	main
(Reuters) - New Jersey declared a partial state of emergency on Tuesday as forecasts for further heavy rainfall posed new danger in parts of that state, New York and Pennsylvania, where rescuers hauled people from waterways, flooded cars and homes.	main
It’s not wind damage,” said Brett Rossio, an Accuweather meteorologist.	distant_evaluation
“It doesn’t take much.	distant_evaluation
Even just a foot of water can pull you away very easily.”	distant_evaluation
More than 8,000 people had lost power in areas drenched by the storms and the Red Cross said it was operating shelters.	main
It was not immediately clear how many people were in them.	cause_general
“It’s Mother Nature so it’s a fluid situation, watching where the rain falls and if there’s additional evacuations necessary,” said Jay Bonafede, the Red Cross spokesman.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (5 Images)	error
Both Pennsylvania and New York have already activated their emergency response centers for the storms, which started over the weekend.	main
Molly Dougherty, a spokeswoman for the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency, said some people affected by the flooding had been recovering from deluges three weeks ago.	distant_evaluation
“People are looking at losses of most of their belongings and, in some cases, we’re still concerned about the safety of folks and making sure they’re able to stabilize,” said Dougherty.	distant_evaluation
Following several days of torrential rain throughout the northeastern United States, the National Weather Service issued new warnings for flooding in areas around Binghamton, New York, near the Pennsylvania border, and in New Jersey.	cause_specific
Federal forecasters warned that areas in the region could see as much as 4 inches (10 cm) more rain on Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said in a statement five of the state’s 21 counties were under a state of emergency, where additional rainfall could further complicate flood cleanup.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Parts of our state have received nothing less than historic amounts of rain, and some communities received an entire month’s worth in just a few hours,” said Murphy.	distant_evaluation
The police department in Brick, a town of 75,000 on the Atlantic coast, said on Facebook that residents were barred from returning to 105 homes without a security escort until township officials finished inspecting them.	cause_general
In Seneca County, New York, emergency crews were evacuating some residents by boat and taking them to a nearby shelter, the sheriff’s office said in a statement.	main
“Flooding is one of the primary killers with regards to weather.	distant_evaluation
It’s not tornadoes.	distant_evaluation
NEW DELHI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - From helicopters plucking families from rooftops to fishermen ferrying villagers to safety, India’s response to deadly floods in Kerala has won praise, but experts say unchecked development contributed to the disaster.	main
“National government to state government to local authorities to NGOs to church, temple, fishermen, children - everyone participated and this must be recognized and lessons should be learned from this kind of response.”	main
‘WAKE-UP CALL’	distant_evaluation
Kerala received over 40 percent more rainfall than usual this monsoon, forcing authorities to release water from dozens of dams, which compounded the flooding.	cause_specific
But other man-made problems were also to blame.	cause_specific
Kerala is one of India’s wealthiest states and has seen rapid unplanned development in recent years, with luxury resorts, residential complexes, power plants and mines built on floodplains, often in violation of the rules.	cause_specific
Critics say such unregulated construction on Kerala’s river banks has caused deforestation and destruction of the mangroves that previously acted as shields against coastal erosion, increasing the risk of floods and landslides.	cause_specific
“The floods were inevitable, but the impact in Kerala was exacerbated by human influence: bad dam management, bad planning, deforestation and destruction of natural habitats,” said Bhushan.	cause_specific
“We must start considering what is the ecological cost of development.”	distant_evaluation
Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has vowed to build “a new Kerala” instead of restoring old structures, with the help of experts on planning and management from across India.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We have to be more cautious, we have to take steps to prevent such occurrences.	distant_evaluation
Nearly 400 people have died since August 8 in the worst floods to hit the coastal state in a century, with dozens more missing and about a million forced into temporary camps after roads, bridges and homes were swept away.	cause_specific
Calamities would haunt us in future too,” he told the Indian Express newspaper in an interview published on Thursday.	distant_evaluation
Analysts, however, say Kerala ignored warnings of looming floods, including by ecologist Madhav Gadgil in a 2011 report that also set out ways the damage could be averted.	distant_evaluation
Kerala is estimated to have suffered damages of nearly $3 billion, which analysts say could rise 10-fold as waters recede and flood recovery begins - from clean-up and reconstruction to restoring livelihoods for farmers who lost land and crops.	distant_expectations_consequences
Experts say authorities must install an early flood warning system, incentivize flood-control projects like stormwater management, plant more trees and protect mangroves and wetlands to make communities more resilient to shocks.	distant_evaluation
“We must focus on how communities can thrive in the face of floods and increasing uncertainty around weather events,” said Nathanial Matthews, a director at the Global Resilience Partnership.	distant_evaluation
“These kind of calamities need to act as a wake-up call to everyone.”	distant_evaluation
As torrential rains began, the army, navy and national disaster response force teams swung into action, battling neck-high waters and mudslides to bring food and drinking water to tens of thousands of marooned people.	cause_specific
But it was the volunteer efforts that drew particular praise - from the fisherman who got on all fours and made a human step for women to clamber onto a boat, to prisoners preparing thousands of chapatis for homeless victims.	distant_evaluation
“The whole society came together, not only those in Kerala but from across the country,” said Vikrant, head of Sphere India, a network of humanitarian agencies.	distant_evaluation
“Regular, common people - right from your fishermen to students to judges – came out to help, and that contributed in saving many people,” Vikrant, who goes by one name, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	main
“We have not seen this in other states previously,” he added, recalling floods in southern Tamil Nadu state in 2015 and in the northern mountainous state of Uttarakhand, where nearly 6,000 people were killed in 2013.	distant_evaluation
Flooding on the scale seen in Kerala could have killed 10 times more people a decade ago, but India’s disaster management capacity has improved significantly in that time, said Chandra Bhushan of the Centre for Science and Environment think tank.	distant_evaluation
“The relief and rescue response in Kerala has been exemplary,” he said.	main
KURASHIKI, Japan (Reuters) - Japan risks more severe weather and must find ways to alleviate disasters, a government spokesman said on Thursday, as intense heat and water shortages raised fear of disease among survivors of last week’s floods and landslides.	distant_expectations_consequences
With temperatures ranging from 31 to 34 Celsius (86 to 93 Fahrenheit) and high humidity, life in school gymnasiums and other evacuation centers, where families spread out on mats on the floors, began to take a toll.	cause_general
Rescue workers and Japan Self-Defense Forces soldiers search for missing people at a landslide site caused by heavy rain in Kumano Town, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan July 11, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Issei Kato	error
Television footage showed one elderly woman trying to sleep by kneeling across a folding chair, arms over her eyes to keep out the light.	cause_general
With few portable fans in evacuation centers, many survivors waved paper fans to keep cool.	cause_general
Tight water supplies meant that people were not getting enough fluids, authorities said.	distant_evaluation
“Without water, we can’t really clean anything up.	distant_anecdotal
We can’t wash anything,” one man told NHK television.	distant_anecdotal
The government has sent out water trucks but supplies remain limited.	cause_general
In the hard-hit Mabi district of Kurashiki city in Okayama prefecture, piles of water-damaged refrigerators, washing machines and furniture lined the streets as residents used hoses to wash mud out of their homes.	cause_general
Torrential rain in western Japan caused the country’s worst weather disaster in 36 years, killing 200 people, many in communities that have existed for decades on mountain slopes and flood plains largely untroubled by storms.	main
Unable to join in the strenuous work Hisako Takeuchi, 73, and her husband, spent the past five nights at an elementary school that had been turned into a make-shift evacuation center.	distant_anecdotal
“We only have each other and no relatives nearby.	distant_anecdotal
We aren’t able to move large things and we desperately need volunteer helpers,” said Takeuchi.	distant_anecdotal
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, on a visit to Kurashiki on Thursday, promised to provide help as soon as possible.	cause_general
He is set to visit two other hard-hit areas on Friday and the weekend.	cause_general
Slideshow (8 Images)	error
More than 70,000 military, police and firefighters toiled through the debris in a search for bodies.	cause_general
Teams used diggers and chainsaws to clear landslides and cut away wreckage of buildings and trees.	cause_general
Many areas were buried deep in mud that smelled like sewage and had hardened in the heat.	cause_general
But severe weather has been battering the country more regularly in recent years, raising questions about the impact of global warming.	main
Dozens of people were killed in a similar disaster last year.	distant_historical
“It’s an undeniable fact that this sort of disaster due to torrential, unprecedented rain is becoming more frequent in recent years,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference in Tokyo.	main
Saving lives was the government’s biggest duty, he said.	distant_evaluation
“We recognize that there’s a need to look into steps we can take to reduce the damage from disasters like this even a little bit,” he said.	distant_evaluation
He did not elaborate on what steps the government could take.	cause_general
More than 200,000 households had no water a week after disaster struck and many thousands of people were homeless.	cause_general
A woman wades through a flooded village after heavy rainfall caused by tropical storm Son Tinh in Ninh Binh province, Vietnam, July 22, 2018.	error
The agency urged the authorities and people to keep vigilant for more floods and landslides over the coming days.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to the National Centre for Hydro-Meteorological Forecasting, heavy rain is forecast to continue in the northern part of the country until early August.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Kham	error
HANOI (Reuters) - The death toll from floods and landslides triggered by tropical storm Son Tinh rose to 27 on Tuesday, and seven people are still missing, the government’s Disaster Management Authority said.	main
With a long coastline, Vietnam is prone to destructive storms and flooding, with 389 people killed last year in natural disasters such as floods and landslides, according to government statistics.	distant_historical
Though tropical storm Son Tinh weakened to a tropical depression by the time it reached Vietnam last week, the torrential rains it brought caused heavy flooding and landslides in many parts of northern Vietnam.	cause_specific
Some areas in the outskirts of the capital Hanoi remain submerged.	cause_specific
The remote mountainous province of Yen Bai has suffered the heaviest casualties in the latest floods and landslides, with 13 people reportedly killed, 18 injured and four missing, the disaster management agency said in a statement.	main
The floods and landslides have also damaged and submerged more than 12,000 houses, more than 90,000 hectares (222,395 acres) of crops, mostly paddy, and cut off traffic to several parts of northern Vietnam, the agency said.	cause_general
Last month, heavy rains triggered flash floods and landslides which killed 24 people in the remote and mountainous northern provinces of Lai Chau and Ha Giang.	cause_general
Rescue workers evacuate people from flooded areas after the opening of Idamalayar, Cheruthoni and Mullaperiyar dam shutters following heavy rains, on the outskirts of Kochi, India August 15, 2018.	error
A senior official with the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority, Sekhar Lukose Kuriakose, said the seasonal rains have killed more than 200 people in the state since May and displaced many.	cause_general
The state last saw such devastating flooding in 1924.	distant_historical
Famous for its coastline and picturesque backwaters, Kerala has become a major destination for domestic and international tourists.	cause_general
REUTERS/Sivaram V	error
KOCHI, India (Reuters) - The death toll from the worst floods in nearly a century in the Indian tourist state of Kerala rose to 43 on Wednesday as rising water stranded tens of thousands of people and forced the closure of one of its main airports.	main
The five latest fatalities from the rain that began a week ago came when authorities in the southern state were forced to release water from 35 dangerously full dams, sending a surge into its main river.	cause_specific
“Presently, 35 reservoirs in the state are releasing water.	cause_general
Many districts in the state are facing floods,” the state’s chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Twitter.	cause_general
The Indian Meteorological Department has forecast heavy to very heavy rain in the state until Saturday, and it has issued a “red alert” for 12 out of its 14 districts.	distant_expectations_consequences
The airport in the port city of Kochi will stay shut until Saturday afternoon.	cause_general
The rain and floods have destroyed and damaged hundreds of houses in the past week and caused significant losses to crops in the state known for its spices and coffee.	cause_general
A man uses a makeshift bamboo bridge to cross a flooded area at a village in Nagaon district, in the northeastern state of Assam, India, June 19, 2018.	error
Last week, landslides and other mishaps triggered by rains killed at least 12 people in southeast Bangladesh, including two Rohingya Muslim refugees from Myanmar living in camps near the border.	cause_general
The camps, thrown up after an estimated 700,000 Rohingyas fled from a Myanmar military crackdown on insurgents that began last August, are believed to be particularly vulnerable to storms in the rainy season, which has just begun.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Anuwar Hazarika	error
DHAKA/GUWAHATI, India (Reuters) - Flash floods triggered by heavy monsoon rains in South Asia have killed dozens of people and displaced more than a million, most in northeast India and Bangladesh, authorities said on Tuesday.	main
The Brahmaputra river, which flows from the Himalayas down to India and then through Bangladesh, has burst its banks, swamping more than 1,500 villages in India’s Assam state in the past week.	cause_specific
“The flood situation remains critical,” Assam’s Water Resources Minister Keshab Mahanta told Reuters, referring to at least 10 of the state’s 32 districts.	distant_evaluation
“The weather office is forecasting more rain and thundershowers in the next 48 hours,” Mahanta said, adding that the state was on maximum alert and the army had put helicopters on standby, in case they were needed for rescues.	distant_expectations_consequences
The floods have killed nearly 20 people and displaced about 800,000 in the Indian states of Assam, Tripura and Manipur.	main
The water level in the Brahmaputra is expected to rise until the end of the week and then level off, in the absence of more heavy rain, India’s Central Water Commission said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Downstream in Bangladesh, 11 people have been killed and more than 250,000 have been displaced or affected by the flooding, officials there said.	main
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Heavy rain and thunderstorms are wreaking havoc across China, with floods along major rivers destroying bridges, blocking roads and railways and forcing thousands of residents to evacuate, state media reported on Saturday.	main
State news agency Xinhua reported on Friday that more than 10 highways in Sichuan province were inaccessible as a result of flooding, and a bridge across Sichuan’s Min river, a Yangtze tributary, had collapsed.	main_consequence
Floods in the province had caused damage to the tune of about 2.4 billion yuan by Thursday, according to the Ministry of Emergency Management, which had sent emergency relief teams to Sichuan and neighboring Gansu province.	main_consequence
The nearby city of Chongqing had evacuated more than 80,000 residents by Friday, Xinhua reported.	cause_general
Heavy rain has also caused the Yellow River, which runs through northern China, to burst its banks, blocking a section of a railway line in the northwest province of Shaanxi.	main
Gansu, also in the northwest, reported 15 people killed, four missing and more than 1 million affected by a week of heavy rain and flash floods, the official China News Service said on Saturday.	main_consequence
The normally arid region of Inner Mongolia, which had suffered weeks of drought, also issued a flood warning on Friday.	cause_general
($1 = 6.6900 yuan)	error
A flooded village is seen Zoige County, Sichuan, China July 13, 2018 in this still image taken from a video obtained from social media on July 14, 2018.	error
TONGZHOU SONG/via REUTERS	error
State television said 241 rivers in 24 provinces had flooded in the last few days, causing direct economic losses of 25.9 billion yuan ($3.87 billion).	main
Weather authorities are forecasting more downpours throughout the country on Saturday, with floods and landslides expected in the southwestern province of Sichuan.	distant_expectations_consequences
Heavy rain and flooding hits much of China this time every year, often with hundreds killed, but the number of casualties this year has been relatively low, at least in the early summer, with one province reporting 15 dead and another three.	main_consequence
The National Meteorological Center said rainfall could exceed 80 mm per hour in some regions on Saturday.	distant_expectations_consequences
It also warned of floods in the northeast and called on authorities to halt outdoor activities and watch out for collapsing structures.	distant_expectations_consequences
The flood-prone Yangtze river, which runs from Yunnan in the southwest to Jiangsu and Shanghai on the east coast, has seen a massive increase in water volumes, causing flooding in many of its tributaries and bringing water volumes in the giant Three Gorges reservoir close to record levels.	main
WILSON, N.C. (Reuters) - Tropical Storm Florence dumped “epic” amounts of rain on North and South Carolina as it trudged inland on Saturday, knocking out power and causing at least eight deaths as flood waters that have devastated many communities kept rising.	main
Numerous roads were closed, and authorities warned of the risk of landslides, tornadoes and flash floods, with dams and bridges in peril as rivers and creeks swelled.	distant_expectations_consequences
As of Saturday, about 676,000 homes and businesses were without power in North Carolina, along with 119,000 in South Carolina.	main_consequence
North Carolina officials said there had been at least seven storm-related fatalities in the state, with unconfirmed reports of a further three deaths.	main_consequence
South Carolina authorities reported one death.	main_consequence
The White House said President Donald Trump approved making federal funding available in some affected counties.	main_consequence
Trump, who plans a visit to the region next week, tweeted his “deepest sympathies and warmth” to the families and friends of those who had lost their lives.	distant_evaluation
(GRAPHIC: Hurricane Florence to pummel U.S. Southeast for days - tmsnrt.rs/2oZFKSb)	error
WORST YET TO COME	distant_expectations_consequences
At 2300 EDT (0300 GMT), the NHC said Florence had maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour (65 km), and was slowly drifting westward over South Carolina.	cause_general
The center said the storm would dump as much as 40 inches (102 cm) of rain along coastal areas of the Carolinas, as well as up to 10 inches in southwestern Virginia.	distant_expectations_consequences
Florence’s intensity has diminished since it roared ashore along the U.S. mid-Atlantic coast on Friday as a hurricane.	cause_general
During a driving rain, Maggie Belgie of The Cajun Navy, carries a child evacuating a flooding trailer community during Hurricane Florence in Lumberton, North Carolina, U.S. September 15, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Randall Hill	error
In Fayetteville, a North Carolina city of about 210,000 people about 90 miles inland, authorities told thousands of residents near the Cape Fear River and Little River to get out of their homes by Sunday afternoon because of the flood risk.	main_consequence
“If you are refusing to leave during this mandatory evacuation, you need to do things like notify your legal next of kin because the loss of life is very, very possible,” Mayor Mitch Colvin said at a news conference.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The worst is yet to come,” he added.	distant_expectations_consequences
The storm made landfall on Friday near Wilmington, a city of about 120,000 squeezed between North Carolina’s Atlantic coastline and the Cape Fear River.	main
On Saturday, its streets were strewn with downed tree limbs and carpeted with leaves and other debris.	main_consequence
Electricity remained out for much of the city, known for its historic mansions, with power lines lying across roads like wet strands of spaghetti.	main_consequence
Near the Sutton Power Plant in Wilmington, coal ash leaked from a Duke Energy landfill.	main_consequence
The site lost enough material to fill around two-thirds of an Olympic-sized pool, the company said in a statement, adding that it did not believe the incident posed a risk to health or the environment.	distant_expectations_consequences
But its slow march over the two states, crawling west at only 3 miles per hour (6 km per hour), is expected to leave large parts of the region deluged in the coming days, the National Hurricane Center in Miami said late Saturday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Officials had warned before the storm that the rains could risk tainting waterways with murky coal ash and toxic hog waste.	cause_general
Florence has already set a North Carolina record for rainfall totals, exceeding that of Hurricane Floyd, which struck in 1999 and caused 56 deaths.	main_consequence
Floyd produced 24 inches of rain in some parts of the state, while Florence has already dumped about 30 inches in areas around Swansboro.	main_consequence
Slideshow (20 Images)	error
In New Bern, about 90 miles northeast of Wilmington at the confluence of two rivers, Florence overwhelmed the town of 30,000 and left the downtown area under water.	main_consequence
Some area residents described a harrowing retreat as the storm hit.	distant_evaluation
“It was pitch black and I was just scared out of my mind,” said Tracy Singleton, who with her family later drove through torrential rain and high winds from her home near New Bern.	distant_anecdotal
South Carolina authorities said law enforcement officers were guarding against looting in evacuated areas, while Wilmington set a curfew on Saturday evening in response to looting in one area.	cause_general
As the United States dealt with Florence, a strong typhoon tore across the northern tip of the Philippines, wrecking homes and triggering landslides before heading toward Hong Kong and China.	cause_general
“This system is unloading epic amounts of rainfall, in some places measured in feet and not inches,” North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper told a news briefing.	cause_general
His state has already endured record rainfall, with much more forecast to come.	cause_general
Rivers will continue to rise days after the rain has stopped, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“This is a hurricane event followed by a flood event,” said South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster.	cause_general
With flood waters advancing rapidly in many communities, around 50 stranded people had been airlifted out by helicopter in North Carolina, said Petty Officer Michael Himes of the U.S. Coast Guard.	main_consequence
More than 26,000 hunkered down in shelters.	main_consequence
HAVANA (Reuters) - Flooding in central Cuba caused by torrential rainfall in the wake of the subtropical storm Alberto has killed four people and prompted the evacuation of tens of thousands, Cuban state-run media said late on Tuesday.	main
On each occasion, he has appeared publicly at the forefront of the crisis management, striking a contrast that many Cubans have welcomed to Castro who operated behind the scenes.	distant_evaluation
Diaz-Canel was cited by state media as saying that authorities should focus on re-establishing basic services such as electricity and transportation when the weather started to improve.	distant_expectations_consequences
Alberto, the first storm of the 2018 Atlantic hurricane season, which only officially starts on June 1, already weakened into a subtropical depression on Tuesday after making landfall in the south of the United States, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC).	cause_general
U.S. forecasters said last week they expected the 2018 Atlantic hurricane season to be near-normal to above-normal in number and intensity of storms.	distant_expectations_consequences
Last year, Hurricane Irma killed at least 10 people during a devastating three-day rampage along the length of Cuba.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: A view of a partially flooded farm as Subtropical Storm Alberto passes by the west coast of Cuba, in Bahia Honda, Cuba, May 26, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Alexandre Meneghini	error
After rain dumped more than 4 inches (10 cm) of water in 24 hours, flood waters swept away a bridge and damaged roads and other infrastructure, leaving many communities cut off and nearly 60,000 people without electricity, the media reported.	main_consequence
Authorities had to close down part of the national highway after a nearby river burst it banks when they opened the floodgates of the Palmarito reservoir because it had exceeded its maximum capacity.	main_consequence
Interior Minister Julio Cesar Gandarilla said in a government meeting with provincial authorities headed by new President Miguel Diaz-Canel that four people had died in the flooding.	main_consequence
Seventy-seven year old Cuban Quintiliano Simó Ortega died when trying to cross a flooded river by horseback in Trinidad on the south central coast to get to his farm, the Cuban News Agency reported.	main_consequence
This is the second crisis Diaz-Canel has faced since being selected six weeks ago to replace Raul Castro as Cuba’s president.	cause_general
The floods come 11 days after a plane crashed shortly after takeoff from Havana, killing 112.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Heavy downpours lashed Texas’ Gulf Coast and unleashed flash floods on Wednesday, submerging vehicles, swamping homes and forcing numerous water rescues in towns still recovering from last year’s Hurricane Harvey.	main
Between 6 and 14 inches (15 to 36 cm) of rain have fallen on areas of South Texas this week and more rainfall was possible through early Thursday, the weather service said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Heavy rainfall was also expected to the north with up to 5 inches (13 cm) forecast for the Middle Mississippi Valley states of South Dakota, Nebraska, Iowa and Kansas throughout the day and into Thursday, the National Weather Service (NWS) said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Be prepared for water over roads due to rapid rises on creeks and streams or even water flowing from farm fields,” the NWS in Des Moines, Iowa, said in an advisory.	distant_expectations_consequences
Authorities closed roadways early Wednesday in several communities along the Des Moines and Mississippi rivers in the Midwest where intense rains have already fallen over the last few days, according to the NWS.	main_consequence
Showers and thunderstorms were also expected for Rockford, Illinois, where five inches of rain fell in less than four hours on Monday night.	distant_expectations_consequences
Emergency crews rescued people from numerous submerged vehicles.	main_consequence
While southern and central U.S. areas suffered from an abundance of rain, rains in the western United States helped slow the growth of forest fires, the National Forest Service said.	cause_general
Colorado’s largest blaze, the 416 fire, was 35 percent contained and its San Juan forest was reopened.	cause_general
A fire in Wyoming near the Colorado border was 94 percent contained.	cause_general
Residents make phone calls from high ground after heavy downpours unleashed flash floods in Mercedes, Texas, U.S., June 20, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Adrees Latif	error
Residents waded shoulder deep through flood waters running down their streets in Mercedes, Texas, about 5 miles (8 km) north of the Mexico-U.S. border, while water was rising in nearby Weslaco.	main_consequence
“My house is to the ankles,” tweeted a Weslaco resident named Sam, showing video of floodwater in his kitchen and other rooms.	distant_anecdotal
Around 15 miles (24 km) to the west, roads collapsed in McAllen as they transformed into torrents.	main_consequence
McAllen was already in the news this week for images of migrant children held in cages at a Border Patrol Processing Center in the city.	cause_general
Some 121 miles northeast on the Texas Gulf coast, a flash flood watch was in effect for towns around Corpus Christi after more than a foot of rain had fallen, the National Weather Service said.	cause_general
Emergency services conducted several high-water rescues in the city while police closed roadways, local media reported.	cause_general
DHAKA/KUTUPALONG REFUGEE CAMP, Bangladesh (Reuters) - Heavy monsoon rains triggered landslides and flooding in southeastern Bangladesh on Wednesday, killing five children and forcing a thousand people to relocate, including in the Rohingya refugee camps.	main
The UNHCR and IOM were also unable to immediately provide figures.	cause_general
Nearly 700,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled across the border from Myanmar since Aug. 2017 when the Myanmar military launched a violent crackdown in Northern Rakhine State.	cause_general
The Rohingya say thousands were killed or raped and their homes were burned down.	cause_general
Myanmar denies this and says its security forces were conducting legitimate counter-insurgency operations.	cause_general
In the Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh, the market near the Modhuchara bamboo bridge began flooding in the early hours of the morning, said a refugee who lives there.	distant_anecdotal
“We were awake when the flooding started,” said Abul Hakim.	distant_anecdotal
“We could not sleep well because of the fear of flooding.”	distant_anecdotal
“I want to move from here.	distant_anecdotal
There is a high risk of flooding and drowning and a high risk of landslides,” he said as his one-and-a-half year-old grandson played in the water.	distant_anecdotal
He said there were about 15 Rohingya families living in the area near the market, and it was the second time it had flooded.	distant_anecdotal
A road is flooded after heavy rain in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, July 25, 2018.	error
Floodwaters near Hakim’s bamboo and plastic shelter were shin-deep.	distant_anecdotal
At least three refugees have been killed in the monsoon since early May.	cause_general
As of July 18, about 21,000 refugees had been relocated because their shelters were threatened by landslides, the UNHCR said.	cause_general
REUTERS/Clare Baldwin	error
The children were killed in landslides near Cox’s Bazar and Ramu, said Kazi Abdur Rahman, a senior Bangladesh government official in the area.	main_consequence
Three more people were injured and taken to hospital and a thousand were evacuated.	main_consequence
It was not immediately clear how many Rohingya refugees were relocated.	cause_general
Aid agencies have warned that the monsoon, which typically peaks in July, could threaten many thousands of people.	distant_expectations_consequences
“A number of families were moved due to flooding and minor landslides,” said Abul Kalam, the Bangladesh government official in charge of the refugees.	main_consequence
“The rain shows no sign of stopping but there has been no major catastrophe inside the camps,” he said.	distant_evaluation
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India will not accept relief assistance from foreign governments for the flood-ravaged state of Kerala, the government has said, following offers of aid from Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.	main
Many people from Kerala live and work in the Gulf.	cause_general
Torrential rain that began in Kerala on Aug. 8 killed 231 people, destroyed tens of thousands of homes, and washed away roads and bridges, leading to an estimated loss of at least 200 billion rupees ($2.85 billion).	cause_specific
The rain eased over the weekend as the focus of efforts turned to relief and rehabilitation from rescue.	cause_general
The main opposition Congress party accused Modi of exacerbating the crisis by failing to come through with more aid and creating obstacles to foreign help.	distant_evaluation
“This decision is quite disappointing to the people of Kerala,” Congress leader and former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy wrote in a public letter to Modi.	distant_evaluation
“Rules should be such (that they) eradicate the sufferings of the people.	distant_evaluation
If there exist any obstacle against the acceptance of foreign aid, kindly look into the matter seriously and bring suitable modifications.”	distant_evaluation
The foreign ministry said the government would welcome contributions to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund from foundations, Indians living abroad and from people of Indian origin.	cause_general
Kerala’s Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said on Twitter the central government should compensate the state for refusing foreign aid.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
FILE PHOTO - An aerial view shows partially submerged houses at a flooded area in Kerala, August 17, 2018.	error
($1 = 70.0900 rupees)	error
Map - tmsnrt.rs/2OKhKNt	error
Kerala floods - tmsnrt.rs/2L0MiIw	error
REUTERS/Sivaram V	error
The decision to decline foreign help drew criticism from the opposition which called for an end the suffering of the people of the southern state hit by the worst flooding in a century, which has killed hundreds of people.	distant_evaluation
Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has announced assistance of 6 billion rupees ($85 million), compared with a request from the state for at least 20 billion rupees.	cause_specific
Modi has promised more aid and his government said late on Wednesday that would come through “domestic efforts”.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The government of India deeply appreciates offers from several countries, including from foreign governments, to assist in relief and rehabilitation efforts after the tragic floods in Kerala,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“In line with the existing policy, the government is committed to meeting the requirements for relief and rehabilitation through domestic efforts.”	distant_evaluation
This week, the United Arab Emirates offered assistance of $100 million while Qatar offered $5 million.	cause_specific
(Reuters) - Rescuers pulled people from inundated cars on flooded streets near Baltimore on Wednesday as heavy rain soaked the U.S. mid-Atlantic coast for a fifth day, swelling rivers, closing roads and imperiling homes.	main
Local news video showed water streaming into homes and businesses and reaching the tops of automobiles as rescue crews worked to save motorists.	cause_general
“It just happened out of nowhere, and next thing my car was just shut off, and I’m like, ‘What do I do now?’” Zachary Reichert told NBC News after being rescued from his flooded Jeep in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.	distant_anecdotal
“I can’t swim in the first place, so I wasn’t jumping into those waters.”	distant_anecdotal
Airports in New York and Philadelphia reported delays of more than an hour.	main_consequence
Downpours and possible showers were forecast to linger across the region for several more days.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separately, parts of Colorado were drenched with rain on Wednesday morning, where officials warned of flash flooding and debris in areas recently scarred by wildfires.	distant_expectations_consequences
In the Denver suburb of Englewood, a 32-year-old woman died on Wednesday of injuries “consistent with drowning” after floodwaters inundated the basement apartment where she was staying, the Arapahoe County Coroner’s Office said.	main_consequence
Across the country, where separate downpours soaked parts of Colorado, a woman was found dead from apparent drowning in floodwaters that swept a basement apartment in suburban Denver, authorities said.	main_consequence
Heavy rains on the Eastern seaboard fell overnight from central New York state south through eastern North Carolina, where the National Weather Service forecast that a new round of downpours could cause more flooding.	main
Eastern Virginia and Pennsylvania were also hard hit.	cause_general
Emergency workers around Baltimore pulled people from at least three vehicles stuck in floodwater as deep as 3 feet (0.9 m), police and fire officials said on Twitter.	main_consequence
A National Weather Service bulletin warned the public to say away from high water, saying: “It doesn’t take much water to sweep away a person or vehicle.”	distant_evaluation
Authorities closed highways and roads in parts of Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia because of flooding.	main_consequence
“With the rainfall we have seen over the last week, the ground is very saturated, so any additional rainfall we receive ... really has nowhere to go,” NWS meteorologist Brandon Fling said.	cause_general
The weather service said as much as 14 inches (36 cm) of rain had fallen along the East Coast since Saturday, swelling waterways well above flood levels.	main
(Reuters) - Duke Energy Corp (DUK.N) said it shut down a North Carolina natural gas plant due to flooding as the deluge of water continued in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence, which has killed more than 40 people.	main
One came from its shuttered Sutton Power Plant on Saturday and a second on Sunday, according to federal officials.	cause_general
Officials had worried the water would overwhelm several pits where coal ash had been stored, potentially contaminating rivers.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We have not been able to get our feet on the ground to get the water quality sampling” due to flooding in the area, Michael Regan, Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, said during North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s Hurricane Florence briefing on Friday.	cause_general
“We plan to conduct flyovers and partner with the Department of Transportation to see if we can ascertain ... whether any coal ash has filtered into the Cape Fear River,” Regan said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separately, company spokeswoman Paige Sheehan told Reuters they cannot rule out the possibility that coal ash might have entered the Cape Fear River.	distant_expectations_consequences
Coal ash collects at the bottom of basins, making it difficult to determine when ash escapes from a site.	cause_general
Coal ash can contaminate water and harm fish and wildlife.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ash pits and other embankments have ruptured under heavy rain in the past, and Duke Energy had agreed to secure the sites in North Carolina’s lowland areas - but that work is ongoing.	cause_general
The company’s shares closed down almost 1 percent at $79.82 on Friday.	cause_general
Duke also said it cannot rule out the possibility that coal ash from another plant is flowing into nearby waters.	distant_expectations_consequences
Water breached the cooling lake dam at Duke’s 625-megawatt natural gas L.V.	cause_specific
Sutton plant, causing the company to shut the plant.	cause_specific
Water is now exiting the cooling lake through breaches, one large and several smaller, the company said in a statement on Friday.	cause_general
However, the company later in the day issued a statement saying the situation remains stable at the plant.	cause_general
The company did not provide any further information on the status of the incident.	cause_general
Hurricane Florence brought several feet of rain to parts of North Carolina over a period of days, and the historic level of storm flooding is not expected to subside until next week.	distant_expectations_consequences
Duke reported two coal ash leaks from a retired plant in Wilmington, North Carolina, following storm Florence.	cause_general
MABI, Japan - (Reuters) - When Isao Akutagawa moved to the sleepy riverside town of Mabi in western Japan 45 years ago, it seemed like the perfect suburb to raise his children.	distant_anecdotal
“We had our local politicians working for years to change the flow of that river,” Akutagawa said.	distant_anecdotal
A flood control project finally won approval in 2010 and construction was set to start this autumn.	distant_historical
“If they had started earlier, even four or five years earlier, we wouldn’t have this,” he added.	distant_anecdotal
Kurashiki City officials said they had asked Japan’s land ministry to start work on the project every year since at least 2005.	distant_historical
But it was not deemed high enough priority.	distant_evaluation
However, officials in the city’s emergency management office said they did not blame the central government for the delay.	distant_evaluation
“The land ministry has to make their decision after seeing all the requests sent in from around the country.	distant_evaluation
Every area, not just ours, make these requests hoping that our river gets picked,” said Hiroshi Kono, an emergency management officer at Kurashiki City.	distant_evaluation
“Of course, it would have made us very happy if ours had been selected sooner.”	distant_evaluation
Hiroshi Yamauchi, an official at the land ministry’s Chugoku Regional Development Bureau in Hiroshima, told Reuters his agency had “followed proper procedures,” but that it was common for large-scale river projects to take years to complete.	distant_evaluation
Land was cheap and he could drive to his job in nearby Kurashiki City.	distant_anecdotal
Competition for a dwindling budget was partly behind the delay, as was an environmental impact study, said Kairyu Takahashi, head of the prefectural legislature, and a member of a committee that discusses regional public works projects.	distant_evaluation
“I feel powerless that I wasn’t able to make the government take action,” he said, choking up with emotion.	distant_evaluation
“If we had somehow completed it in time, this may not have happened.”	distant_evaluation
At a news conference on Friday, Keiichi Ishii, who heads the ministry of land, infrastructure and transport, which oversees flood prevention projects, declined to address whether the high death toll in Mabi was a preventable “human disaster” or who was responsible.	distant_evaluation
“We recognize that there’s a need to look into steps we can take to reduce the damage from disasters like this even a little bit,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at a separate news conference last week as the regional death toll mounted.	distant_evaluation
(For a graphic on Japan flooding, click tmsnrt.rs/2Jq5dMi)	error
Family members of 79-year-old local resident Isao Akutagawa (not pictured), try to remove mud and debris from their house in a flood affected area in Mabi town in Kurashiki, Okayama Prefecture, Japan, July 12, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Issei Kato	error
DECADES OF DELAY	cause_general
Many people moved to Mabi after the floods of 1972 and 1976 as flatlands next to two main rivers were developed into a bedroom town.	distant_historical
As he built his home next to rice paddies 2 kilometers from the Odagawa river bank, he heard stories about a flood the year before, but didn’t pay much notice until local politicians began warning residents it could happen again.	distant_anecdotal
Mabi grew to be a quiet district of about 23,000 people.	distant_historical
Elderly residents said they knew about flood risks, but had never seen waters rise much higher than knee-level.	distant_evaluation
Still, calls to improve flood control date back decades.	cause_general
Early proposals, dating as far back as 1968, called for a river bypass and a weir, or small dam, to supply water to farms and reduce flood risks.	distant_historical
Resistance from residents on the southern side of the Odagawa river over being cut off from groundwater stalled the plans, Takahashi said.	distant_evaluation
And in the last 20 years, public works spending has declined sharply, falling about 60 percent nationwide from a peak of 14.9 trillion yen in the fiscal year ending in March 1999 to about 6 trillion yen in the current fiscal year, government data show.	cause_general
In 2014, 28 billion yen was allocated for a 30-year plan that included a bypass between the Odagawa and Takahashi rivers.	distant_historical
Work on that 10-year project was scheduled to get under way later this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
MAPPING DISASTER	distant_historical
Kurashiki City, like all municipalities across Japan, was required under a 2005 law to create “hazard maps” outlining areas at high risk of flooding, landslides and other disasters, and the locations of evacuation centers.	distant_historical
“They told us years ago that the Odagawa river levees might break,” said Akutagawa, 79, as he mopped muddy water out of his living room.	distant_anecdotal
Two years ago, Kurashiki City drafted its own colorful hazard maps.	distant_historical
The maps were accurate; large swathes of Mabi marked as risky areas on the maps almost perfectly match the areas overrun by gushing floodwaters.	distant_historical
But there were two problems: the city assumed a pattern of prolonged rain over a wide area rather than an intense concentrated downpour as actually occurred, according to online planning documents, and residents say they paid little attention to the maps.	cause_general
A near-record 138.5 millimeters of rain fell on July 6 in Kurashiki, second only to the 183.5 millimeters recorded on Sept. 3, 2011, according to weather agency data.	cause_specific
Early the next morning, waters broke through levees on the Odagawa and Takamagawa rivers, unleashing flood waters.	cause_specific
Some residents said they had simply ignored the hazard maps; after all, rainfall is relatively rare in Okayama Prefecture, which is known as the “Land of Sunshine.”	distant_evaluation
“To me, it was just another routine document from the public office,” said Shigezo Kaneko, 80, who was rescued by boat after waters came close to the first-floor ceiling of his two-story house.	distant_anecdotal
“I guess I wasn’t really vigilant.”	distant_anecdotal
‘NOT IN TIME’	cause_specific
In 2015, Japan’s Central Land Ministry came up with a policy to better cope with disasters, which included training local authorities on when to issue warnings.	distant_historical
His home was submerged in a sudden flood earlier this month when heavy rain caused multiple levees to break.	distant_anecdotal
But advisories and orders to evacuate are left up to local authorities.	cause_general
Kurashiki Mayor Kaori Ito announced the first evacuation order, for the area south of the Odagawa river, at 11:45 p.m. At 1:30 a.m. the next day, using loudspeakers, mobile phone alerts, and television and radio messages, the city ordered residents in the heavily populated area north of the river to seek shelter.	cause_specific
That order came just four minutes before confirmation of the first levee failure, on a small Takamagawa river.	cause_specific
Ito, asked about the timing at a news conference, expressed regret but said she had gone by the book.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (23 Images)	error
“It (the order) was issued based on the condition of the river and in line with standards (for issuance),” she was quoted as saying by domestic media.	distant_evaluation
Reuters was unable to reach Ito last week for further comment about the decision.	cause_general
Although his family escaped, Atsushi Yamashita, 63, could not persuade one of his neighbors, a man in his 90s, to leave his house just 30 meters from the Odagawa river.	distant_anecdotal
The man was later found dead.	distant_anecdotal
“Something similar might happen again in a few years,” said Yamashita as workers slowly cleared a mound of rubble in front of his home.	distant_anecdotal
Torrential rains across western Japan this month triggered floods and landslides that killed more than 200 people and left over a dozen missing in Japan’s worst weather disaster in 36 years.	main
“My wife says she doesn’t want to live here anymore.”	distant_anecdotal
Mabi, which merged with Kurashiki in 2005, was one of the hardest hit, accounting for most of the 51 killed in Kurashiki.	main
More than a quarter of it was inundated, with floodwaters reaching as high as 4.8 meters (16 feet) in some neighborhoods.	cause_specific
Interviews with more than a dozen residents, officials and experts show how multiple failures increased Mabi’s death toll: flood-control plans were delayed for decades; residents often didn’t understand warnings about the risks; and an evacuation order for the worst-hit area came just minutes before confirmation that a levee had failed.	main
HONOLULU (Reuters) - Hawaii was spared a direct hit by a major hurricane as Lane, once a monster tempest, rapidly weakened into a tropical storm, even as it unleashed severe flooding on the Big Island and threatened to drench Oahu and Maui.	cause_general
But no injuries were reported.	cause_general
“I’ve never seen this, so much devastation of the river flowing down off of Komohana (River),” said long-time resident Tracy Pacheco in Hilo.	distant_anecdotal
“I just came from Pahale Park, and there’s no park.”	distant_anecdotal
FORECASTS LESS DIRE	distant_expectations_consequences
Official bulletins grew less dire through the day.	cause_general
Into the evening, forecasts made clear that Hawaii had been spared from the threat of its first direct hit by a major hurricane in a quarter of a century.	cause_general
Lane was downgraded on Friday to a Category 1, the lowest ranking on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, as it churned through the Pacific south of Oahu, the National Weather Service said.	cause_general
It was downgraded again to a tropical storm shortly before 5 p.m. as its maximum sustained wind speeds fell below 74 mph.	cause_general
The storm was nearly stationary south of Hawaii on Friday night.	cause_specific
It was expected to move slowly toward the northwest later and then turn west on Saturday and continue over the weekend, the National Weather Service said in an advisory.	distant_expectations_consequences
Lane, with maximum sustained winds diminishing to near 70 mph (110 kph), was forecast to slowly make its nearest approach to land just west of the U.S. Pacific island chain over the weekend, bringing tropical storm conditions to Maui and the state’s most populous island, Oahu, late on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Large waves crash against the shoreline on the east side of Oahu as Hurricane Lane approaches Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S. August 24, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Hugh Gentry	error
Forecasts predicted that Lane, which peaked as a Category 5 hurricane with top sustained winds of 160 mph (260 kph) earlier in the week, to diminish into a tropical depression by early on Sunday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The turn of events was welcomed by residents who had spent much of the past few days stocking up on food, water, gasoline and batteries and boarding up their windows.	distant_evaluation
TORRENTIAL DOWNPOURS, EVACUATIONS	cause_general
Still, the storm posed a considerable weather hazard to large parts of the state, with the island of Hawaii bearing the brunt of torrential downpours from Lane.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Oahu, where 70 percent of Hawaii’s 1.4 million residents live, Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell told the Weather Channel that the city has moved its emergency-response equipment to higher ground for the time being.	cause_general
He said Honolulu, the state’s capital and largest city, is vulnerable to floods and slides because it is partly ringed by mountains.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We have asked our residents in these areas where they know it floods to be ready to leave,” Caldwell said, adding that 1,100 people were staying in emergency shelters throughout the city.	cause_general
Slideshow (10 Images)	error
More than two feet (60 cm) of rain had fallen in a 36-hour period by Friday night on the windward side of the island of Hawaii, popularly known as the Big Island, where the Weather Service reported “catastrophic flooding.” More than 40 inches of rain was recorded in Piihonua and Waiakea on the island late on Friday, the weather service said.	main
New Yorker Rigo Pagoada, 43, who was on vacation on Oahu with his family, said he felt lucky it had been largely spared.	distant_anecdotal
“We’ve been very fortunate,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
“It’s sad to see the (impact on) the Big Island.”	distant_anecdotal
Hawaii’s major airports remained open during the storm, though 22 flights were canceled at Honolulu’s main airport, according to online tracking service FlightAware.com.	cause_general
Several airlines also canceled services to Kahului Airport on Maui in anticipation of severe weather, the state transportation department said.	cause_general
The governor said travelers should expect congestion at the airports on Saturday and Sunday from the backlog of canceled flights.	distant_expectations_consequences
Flash flooding and mudslides on the Big Island forced road closures and evacuations as police and emergency crews conducted numerous rescues of people stranded in vehicles and homes by high water on Friday.	main_consequence
“Roads all over are impassable due to extreme flooding,” said Hawaii resident Lili Koi on Twitter late on Friday night.	distant_anecdotal
“That means ambulances and even police are not able to get through.	distant_anecdotal
Say some prayers and be safe.”	distant_anecdotal
A number of structures on the island of Hawaii were destroyed, said Melissa Dye, a Weather Service spokeswoman in Honolulu.	main_consequence
She said two Hilo-area neighborhoods were evacuated.	cause_general
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - The southern Indian state of Kerala is battling an outbreak of a bacterial disease that authorities suspect has killed dozens of people since mid-August after the worst flooding in a century.	main
Overall, nine deaths from the disease have been confirmed, but the number may rise to over 40 pending full medical reports, the ministry spokesman said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FAST INFECTION	cause_general
Leptospirosis rarely spreads from person to person and can be treated with common antibiotics.	cause_general
“In the past week, we have seen about 30 deaths in Kozhikode and Wayanad,” said Mohammed Javeed, internal medicine specialist at a private hospital in Kerala, referring to two of the worst flood-affected districts on the state’s southwest coast.	main
Javeed said the state has leptospirosis cases every monsoon season as paddy fields fill with water, increasing the chance of infection for farmers, especially through wounds such as cuts.	cause_general
Of particular concern, however, is that some of the victims this year did not have usual symptoms such as mild jaundice, blood in urine or bleeding spots on the skin, he said.	cause_general
“This time it is a fast, progressive infection,” Javeed told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“The recent deaths indicate clearly the threat of an epidemic.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Medical professionals are continuing to dispense preventive medicine in the form of tablets which need to be taken once a week for a month, Javeed said.	cause_general
($1 = 71.1225 Indian rupees)	error
An aerial view shows a partially submerged road at a flooded area in the southern state of Kerala, India, August 19.	error
REUTERS/Sivaram V	error
A health ministry spokesman said as of Sunday there had been nearly 200 confirmed cases of what is locally called rat fever - the waterborne disease leptospirosis transmitted via the urine of infected animals, with symptoms including muscle pain and fever.	main
The surge in cases comes after torrential rain beginning on Aug. 8 flooded almost the entire state, killing hundreds of people, destroying thousands of homes and causing at least 200 billion rupees ($2.81 billion) worth of damage.	cause_specific
The health ministry began distributing preventive medicine last month and warned about the outbreak of leptospirosis and other waterborne diseases such as typhoid and cholera, Health Minister K.K.	cause_general
Shailaja told reporters.	cause_general
Local media reported three leptospirosis deaths on Monday.	main
“The victims had unfortunately not taken preventive medicine,” the minister said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: A woman carries drinking water after collecting it from a hand pump at a flood affected area in Hojai district, in the northeastern state of Assam, India, June 17, 2018.	error
“The next one week is critical.	distant_expectations_consequences
If the water level rises consistently...definitely we will have a flood scenario,” said state relief commissioner Sanjay Kumar.	distant_expectations_consequences
More than 10,000 people who lived near the banks of the Yamuna river in and around Delhi have been shifted to tents on higher ground as the water level crossed the danger mark, district magistrate K. Mahesh said.	cause_general
REUTERS/Anuwar Hazarika/File Photo	error
BHUBANESWAR/NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Heavy rains flooded a hospital critical care unit in eastern India, an official said on Monday, as annual monsoon rains destroyed homes in several parts of the country and forced others to flee to higher ground.	main
Television showed doctors wading through knee-deep water tending to patients lying on raised beds at the government Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, the capital of Bihar state.	main
Some patients had been moved out as staff pumped out water that had seeped into medical equipment.	cause_general
More than 1,500 people have died so far this year across the country due to storms, floods and landslides.	cause_general
Most government action in India tends to focus on relief, with weak early warning systems and too little focus on prevention.	distant_evaluation
More rain is forecast for Bihar and neighboring Uttar Pradesh where 80 people have died over the last four days, either drowning or being hit by collapsing walls.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rivers running through Uttar Pradesh were in spate.	cause_general
NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - When heavy rains hit Kenya’s capital in March, Penina Mueni’s three sewing machines went underwater.	distant_anecdotal
“Increasing population and poor urban planning is a problem.	distant_evaluation
If we only had well-planned cities we wouldn’t experience problems like this,” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	distant_evaluation
UNEP estimates that worsening flooding is costing sub-Saharan Africa 1.4 percent of its GDP each year, with the costs of adapting to the changes running at 3 percent of GDP.	cause_general
Venant Ndighila, an emergency response manager for Kenya’s Red Cross, said that flash flooding in March this year took a heavy toll on roads and other infrastructure.	distant_historical
“Due to early prediction by the Kenya Meteorological Department, we had planned for these floods,” he said.	distant_historical
But this year floods reached areas where they had not before, including in 13 of 25 Kenyan counties, he said.	distant_historical
The floods left roads and bridges submerged in some areas and schools flooded, as well as covering at least 8,450 acres of farmland and killing more than 6,000 livestock, according to the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.	distant_historical
Robert Masese, director of secondary and tertiary education for the Ministry of Education, said in April that more money needed to be invested in disaster preparedness.	distant_evaluation
“It has been estimated that a dollar invested in disaster risk reduction can save two to 10 dollars in disaster response and recovery cost,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
To deal with the worsening flood threat, Nairobi County in March set aside 194 million Kenyan shillings ($1.9 million) to improve drainage and deal with worsening flooding problems, said Mohamed Dagane, roads and infrastructure executive for the county.	distant_historical
The tailor, who repairs clothes in southern Nairobi’s Makuru kwa Reuben slum, hadn’t had problems with flooding earlier.	distant_anecdotal
He told reporters the county government has come up with a plan to address flash flooding threats, in part through measures such as mapping flood-prone areas and improving response time to clear blocked drains in those areas.	main
Kenya’s National Environmental Management Authority also said in a press statement it had begun closing businesses that had encroached on the Nairobi River, which runs through the city.	main
Government cabinet officials also last month approved a National Disaster Risk Management policy that aims to boost investment in disaster research and efforts to reduce Kenya’s vulnerability to hazards, including droughts and flooding.	main
But as climate change brings more intense rains, it is threatening her business.	distant_anecdotal
“Right now I don’t know how I will get money to repair the machines.	distant_anecdotal
My garment materials are completely spoiled.	distant_anecdotal
It’s a huge loss I have never (before) incurred in my life,” said Mueni, 40, pointing to the sodden mess that was her shop.	distant_anecdotal
Wilder weather is bringing flooding and other threats to many of Africa’s cities, with Nairobi, Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and Somalia’s capital Mogadishu all experiencing flooding this spring.	cause_general
But poor urban planning is as much a risk as climate change, said Juliette Biao Koudenoukpo, the regional director of the U.N.	distant_evaluation
Environment Programme (UNEP).	distant_evaluation
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Four decades ago, when storms blew in the North Sea and sent high tides surging toward London, sirens sounded in the city.	distant_historical
Ipswich in eastern England will put into operation its first tidal barrier this winter, part of a 66-million-pound ($86-million) flood protection system designed to defend the town against growing threats, officials there say.	main
Other British towns, including the east coast port of Boston, are planning barriers of their own, said Andrew Usborne, the project manager for the Ipswich barrier, on the River Orwell.	distant_evaluation
The moveable barriers - which retract into the riverbed floor when not in use and are raised only when needed - are being built not just because of rising risks but because they increasingly make financial sense, Usborne said.	distant_evaluation
In Ipswich, “this was the cheapest and preferred option,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Walls built along the waterfront, long used to protect the city, now need to be raised to meet growing risks “but nobody’s ever going to accept a meter of wall all through the center of town”, he said.	distant_evaluation
The new barrier, which sits on piles driven 60m (66 yards) into the chalky soil, will protect about 1,200 homes and more than 400 businesses from the kind of storm expected to hit every 300 years, he said - and rising climate change risks have been taken into account.	cause_general
Across Britain, “where it is financially and technically appropriate, like here, we will have barriers,” he predicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
London’s Thames Barrier - a 520m span of steel gates, piers and abutments that looks as if it might have been inspired by the Sydney Opera House - has now been used more than 180 times to protect central London from tidal floods, East said.	cause_general
The rate of use has been increasing - at one point, it was closed on 24 consecutive tides - but that increasing crescendo of closures “was always expected,” the engineer said.	distant_evaluation
The structure was designed to last until 2030 - but assessments suggest it will now last until 2070, when a new barrier will need to be put in place, he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
A map of the Tidal Barrier in Ipswich, United Kingdom, on April 10, 2018.	error
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
For now, however, the barrier remains an effective bulwark, keeping 1.25 million Londoners - and 300 billion pounds worth of infrastructure - above the rising tide, officials say.	distant_evaluation
“Until the 1920s, people actually died in floods in central London - and the real catalyst for the Thames Barrier and the rest of the tidal defense system was the floods of 1953, where over 350 people died,” East said.	distant_historical
“That was a wake-up call to the government that they had to come up with a solution,” he said.	distant_historical
Thomson Reuters Foundation/Claudio Accheri	error
“People were told not to work or sleep in basements.	distant_evaluation
They used to move buses to higher ground.	distant_evaluation
All these contingency plans had to be in place,” remembers Steve East, an engineering manager for the British Environment Agency.	distant_evaluation
But since 1982, when the Thames Barrier - London’s pioneering flood protection wall - came into use, central Londoners have scarcely had to think about flood risks.	distant_evaluation
“Today if London is threatened by a tidal surge, we stop the surge here and London carries on with its normal day-to-day business,” said East, the engineering manager for the barrier, which spans the Thames in Woolwich in southeast London.	distant_evaluation
As climate change brings more extreme rainfall, higher tides and stronger storms, flood risks are rising across Britain - and flood protection barriers are rising as well.	cause_general
CHICAGO (Reuters) - North Carolina estimated on Tuesday that 3.4 million poultry birds and 5,500 hogs died in Hurricane Florence, exceeding the number killed in the state’s last major hurricane two years ago.	main
Troxler said 2,800 hogs and 1.8 million birds died from Hurricane Matthew.	distant_historical
“There are going to be some pretty good losses on the poultry side judging from the flooded houses that we saw,” Troxler said.	distant_expectations_consequences
North Carolina is the country’s No.	cause_general
2 swine-producing state, its leading producer of tobacco and a major poultry producer, making agriculture its principle industry, valued at $87 billion.	cause_general
Aerial view of a hog farm after the passing of Hurricane Florence in eastern North Carolina, U.S., September 17, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Rodrigo Gutierrez	error
Hurricane Florence, which came ashore last Friday with torrential rains, has caused more outdoor hog manure pits to collapse and overflow in North Carolina than Hurricane Matthew did in 2016, according to state data, stoking concern about possible water contamination.	cause_general
The deaths of 26 people in North Carolina and six in South Carolina have been attributed to the storm.	cause_general
High winds and flooding damaged two chicken farms that supply Tyson Foods Inc (TSN.N), the biggest U.S. meat processor, spokesman Worth Sparkman said.	cause_specific
He said operations were minimally damaged, and the company was looking to relocate chickens that survived to other farms.	distant_evaluation
Aerial view of farms flooded after the passing of Hurricane Florence in eastern North Carolina, U.S., September 17, 2018.	error
WH Group Ltd’s Smithfield Foods Inc [SFIL.UL], the biggest U.S. pork producer, was operating processing plants at limited capacity, after previously closing the world’s largest hog slaughterhouse in Tar Heel, North Carolina, spokeswoman Diana Souder said.	cause_general
Flood waters inundated the barns and waste pit at one company-owned hog farm in the state, she said.	cause_general
North Carolina’s Department of Environmental Quality said on Tuesday that the walls of four pits holding hog waste, known as lagoons, had given way because of the storm, thirteen pits had overflowed due to rain, and nine were inundated by floodwaters.	cause_general
Hurricane Matthew caused a partial structural failure at one lagoon, while none overflowed from rain and 14 were inundated by floodwaters, according to the industry group NC Pork Council.	distant_historical
More lagoons were at risk of overflowing in the days ahead, state data showed, including 30 that are filled to the brim with waste and water, and another 25 with zero to three inches of space to spare.	distant_expectations_consequences
There are more than 3,300 lagoons in North Carolina, said Andy Curliss, chief executive for the NC Pork Council.	cause_general
Hog producers, including Smithfield, lowered the levels of waste in lagoons before the storm, but up to 36 inches (91 cm) of rain overwhelmed some farms.	cause_general
Matt Wellington, antibiotics program director of U.S. PIRG, a federation of public interest groups, said the release of waste from lagoons could spread antibiotic-resistant bacteria.	distant_expectations_consequences
Farmers raise hogs with antibiotics, which can be found in their waste, he said.	distant_evaluation
Sampling waterways in eastern North Carolina after Hurricane Matthew showed a temporary increase in concentrations of some bacteria and pollutants in spots, according to a 2017 report from the state’s Department of Environmental Quality.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Rodrigo Gutierrez	error
The North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services projected the animal death toll after emergency workers and veterinarians spent days in the field assessing losses at farms following the storm.	cause_specific
“I’m just assuming, based on the depth of the water that we had in North Carolina and the amount of rainfall, that we probably will exceed what we had in [Hurricane] Matthew,” Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler said in an interview, referring to hog losses.	distant_expectations_consequences
He spoke on Tuesday after flying over flooded areas, before the department issued its estimates.	cause_general
North Carolina has 8.9 million swine, representing 12 percent of the U.S. herd, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA).	cause_general
Raised in barns, they can become trapped and drown in floods.	cause_general
Last year, North Carolina farmers also raised 830.8 million chickens for meat, 9 percent of the U.S. flock, and 32.5 million turkeys, or 13 percent of the U.S. total, according to the USDA.	distant_historical
BARCELONA (Reuters) - Hurricane Leslie is expected to hit the Iberian Peninsula within hours, authorities said on Saturday, bringing strong winds and heavy rains days after deadly floods on the Spanish island of Mallorca.	main
The storm will most likely hit land around the Portuguese capital of Lisbon, before moving across the peninsula, bringing winds of up to 100 km/h (60 mph), Spain’s state weather service said.	main
Earlier this week, 12 people died in the flooding on Mallorca in the Mediterranean.	cause_general
Currently a Category 1 hurricane, Leslie is expected to weaken slightly as it moves east on Saturday, the U.S. National Hurricane Centre (NHC) said.	distant_expectations_consequences
As of Saturday afternoon, Leslie was about 200 miles (320 km) west of Lisbon, the NHC said, adding that it is expected to become a post-tropical cyclone and dissipate by Sunday night or Monday.	cause_specific
Spanish emergency services warned of the possibility of flash floods and urged to motorists to be vigilant in case of strong winds.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separate storm fronts in the north and east of Spain mean heavy rain is expected across much of the country on Sunday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Heavy rain hit Mallorca on Tuesday, sending torrents of brown water along narrow streets in the town of Sant Llorenc.	cause_general
Rivers burst their banks and swamped homes, leaving roadsides strewn with wrecked vehicles and beaches covered in debris.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Tropical Storm Gordon whipped the southern tip of Florida with high winds and rain on Monday, and was expected to make landfall as a hurricane along the central U.S. Gulf Coast on Tuesday night, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) said.	main
New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell has declared a state of emergency for her city, closing all non-essential government offices on Tuesday.	main_consequence
Last year, powerful hurricanes walloped Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico, causing thousands of deaths, hundreds of billions of dollars worth of damage, massive power outages and devastation to hundreds of thousands of structures.	distant_historical
At the mouth of the Mississippi River, around the area of New Orleans, the storm could generate a surge of up to 4 feet(1.2 metres) and smaller surges could hit coastland along other parts of the Gulf Coast, the Miami-based hurricane center said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
U.S. oil producer Anadarko Petroleum Corp on Monday evacuated workers and shut production at two offshore oil platforms, and other companies with production and refining operations along the Gulf Coast said they were securing facilities.	main_consequence
The U.S. Coast Guard also warned that the ports of New Orleans as well as Gulfport and Pascagoula, Mississippi, may have to close within 48 hours when gale force winds from Gordon are expected to arrive.	distant_expectations_consequences
The storm was forecast to come ashore late on Tuesday near the border between Louisiana and Mississippi, and drop as much as 8 inches (20 cm) of rain in some areas of the U.S. South still reeling from hurricanes a year ago.	main
Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards declared a state of emergency, saying 200 Louisiana National Guardsmen were being deployed, along with 63 high-water trucks, 39 boats, and 4 helicopters.	main_consequence
The Mississippi Emergency Management Agency warned of storm surges of between 3 and 5 feet (1 and 1.5 meters) and told South Mississippi residents to be prepared to evacuate.	distant_expectations_consequences
Gordon was generating winds of 50 miles per hour (80 km per hour) on Monday as it steamed west-northwest at 16 mph (27 kph), the National Hurricane Center said.	cause_specific
Related Coverage Tropical storm Gordon moving quickly across eastern Gulf of Mexico: NHC	cause_general
Gordon was located about 330 miles (530 kms) east-southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River with maximum sustained winds of 60 miles per hour (95 kms/hour), the Miami-based weather forecaster said in an advisory late on Monday.	cause_specific
By Monday afternoon the storm had passed over Florida’s southern tip.	cause_specific
There were no reports of any injuries or deaths or any damages to buildings, said Alberto Moscoso, a spokesman for the Florida Division of Emergency Management.	cause_general
MAZATLAN, Mexico (Reuters) - Hurricane Willa, an extremely dangerous a Category 4 storm, weakened slightly as it veered toward popular tourist resorts on Mexico’s Pacific coast on Monday, prompting government warnings for people to leave high-risk areas and take cover.	main
Alberto Hernandez, head of the SMN, said the storm would probably be a Category 4 or 3 hurricane when it reached land, and could cause waves several meters (feet) high.	distant_expectations_consequences
It could also lead to the formation of waterspouts in front of the coast of Puerto Vallarta, the SMN said, referring to another beach resort in the state of Jalisco next to Nayarit.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nearly three years ago to the day, Hurricane Patricia, one of the most powerful storms on record, struck Mexico close to Puerto Vallarta with winds that tore down trees, moved cars and forced thousands of people to flee homes.	distant_historical
Speaking in the western city of Guadalajara, President Enrique Pena Nieto warned the population to prepare for the arrival of Willa and urged residents to take cover.	distant_evaluation
The storm was about 100 miles (160 km) west of the town of Cabo Corrientes and is “expected to be a dangerous major hurricane when it reaches the coast of Mexico”, the NHC said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Willa is moving northward and is forecast to gradually lose power during the next day or so and weaken rapidly after hitting the coast, the Miami-based hurricane center added.	distant_expectations_consequences
The SMN urged residents to “exercise extreme caution” as rains have softened the soil in some areas.	distant_evaluation
Willa’s downpours could cause landslides, flooding and damage to roadways.	distant_expectations_consequences
The NHC said that the Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunter Aircraft that was en route to Willa experienced a safety issue before entering the storm and had to return to base.	cause_general
Willa is expected to douse coastal states Jalisco, Nayarit and Sinaloa with 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm) of rain, likely triggering flash floods and landslides, the NHC said.	distant_expectations_consequences
A general view of Mazattlan is seen through a window of a plane as Hurricane Willa approaches the Pacific beach resort of Mazatlan, Mexico October 22, 2018.	error
Some areas may see as much as 18 inches (45 cm) of rainfall.	distant_expectations_consequences
To the south, Tropical Storm Vicente weakened further, with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph (65 kph).	cause_general
It was churning some 310 miles (500 km) southeast of the Pacific port Manzanillo, and would likely dissipate soon, the NHC said.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Henry Romero	error
Mexican authorities urged residents to evacuate their homes for temporary shelters, closed ports, canceled classes and suspended beachside and marine activities.	main_consequence
The storm was due to come ashore after lunch on Tuesday just south of Mazatlan, a popular beach resort in the northwestern state of Sinaloa.	main
Several other tourist destinations in the neighboring state of Nayarit also lie near to the storm’s path.	main
Willa, which earlier in the day had been a Category 5 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, was blowing maximum sustained winds of near 150 miles per hour (240 kph) by evening with higher gusts, the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) said.	cause_specific
Complete power outages, damage to roofs and even the foundations of buildings that are up to 500 meters (1,640 feet) from the coastline were possible, Mexico’s National Meteorological Service (SMN) said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In Sinaloa, Tuesday classes were canceled in towns stretching more than 120 miles (200 km) across the state, including Mazatlan, as well as in all of Nayarit.	main_consequence
(In this October 13 story, corrects paragraph 3 to Weather Company instead of Weather Channel, corrects paragraph 5 producer of video to Weather Company instead of Weather Channel)	error
Thank you,” Matlin wrote.	distant_evaluation
Matlin posted a link to a video produced by the Weather Company, which includes the Weather Channel logo on its website but is separate from the television network.	cause_specific
Emergency notifications about troubles ranging from life-threatening tornadoes to New York City subway delays fail to reach Americans with hearing loss because of the failure to integrate closed captioning on public address systems, she noted.	main
“‘There’s not so many of you, so it’s not so important for us.’ That’s the way we feel,” Matlin said.	distant_evaluation
“Everything is migrating to the internet.	distant_evaluation
It’s breaking news and you bring up the website video and it’s just the clips.	cause_specific
There is no captioning.”	cause_specific
Even when officials include signers at their news conferences, viewers trying to catch up to the news online later are unable to see them in edited video clips, she said.	distant_evaluation
“When they show the mayor or the sheriff, there is always an interpreter next to them, but they show a clip and then it goes away,” Matlin said.	distant_evaluation
Warning and evacuating people with physical limitations from a fast-moving hurricane requires extraordinary efforts, advocates and state officials said on Friday.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Search and rescue crews walk past debris caused by Hurricane Michael in Mexico Beach, Florida, U.S. October 11, 2018.	error
Many disabled people are low income, rely on public transportation and cannot afford private transport or temporary lodging.	cause_general
Those with physical limitations have difficulty with storm preparation like boarding up homes and storing water bottles.	cause_general
The more time they have to prepare for a storm the better, but Hurricane Michael’s rapid intensification left thousands with no escape.	cause_general
The New England Journal of Medicine found “interruption of medical care” was a leading cause of the 3,000 deaths from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.	cause_general
Ahead of Hurricane Michael, medical treatments for chronic illnesses including diabetes, asthma and hypertension were sent in “hurricane-specific modules” to primary care health centers near the storm’s path, said Andrew Schroeder, research and analytics director for the non-profit organization Direct Relief.	cause_general
Each emergency medical pack contained enough medicine to treat 100 patients for 72 hours, he said.	cause_general
It remains to be seen if those modules have helped, President of Florida Association of Community Health Centers Andrew Behrman said, because many of the health centers in the storm’s path lost power and were directing patients to shelters.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
“There’s damage to a number of those facilities and one of them, the roof is gone, so whatever was inside of that is not going to be usable,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Florida’s Agency for Persons with Disabilities (APD), which serves about 3,000 developmentally disabled people affected by Michael, holds conference calls twice a day to check in with people during emergencies, said spokeswoman Melanie Etters.	cause_general
REUTERS/Jonathan Bachman/File Photo	error
But without phone service, disabled people have no way to get in touch with specialists or authorities.	cause_general
“We had to move quickly and start communicating with people rapidly to make sure people were taking action because it was moving so fast toward the coast,” she said.	distant_evaluation
By Gabriella Borter and Barbara Goldberg	error
(Reuters) - When Oscar-winning deaf actress Marlee Matlin turned to the internet to view a video warning about Hurricane Michael, she was quickly reminded that sign language interpreters are often edited out of broadcast clips and closed captioning seems to be non-existent online.	cause_specific
“There are 35 million deaf and hard of hearing people and it’s amazing today that there isn’t full access to them,” she told Reuters through an interpreter on Friday in a telephone interview.	distant_evaluation
Matlin drew attention to emergency communication glitches with disabled people earlier in the week, when she tweeted on Tuesday about the Weather Company’s failure to include closed captioning in reports about the approaching storm.	main
“Dear @weatherchannel I wanted to share this video for the thousands of Deaf and Hard Of Hearing residents in the path of #HurricaneMichael but unfortunately, it’s NOT closed captioned.	cause_specific
Access to info is VITAL; it’s a life or death matter.	distant_evaluation
HOUSTON (Reuters) - In an empty lot where Vincent Shields’ Houston home once stood, he points out properties whose owners were driven out after Hurricane Harvey inundated the region last summer.	distant_anecdotal
With the 2018 hurricane season beginning June 1, around 400 Houston households are still living in hotel rooms funded by FEMA, according to the agency’s latest data.	main
Many others remain in temporary housing uncertain about their return home.	main
According to interviews with residents and neighborhood groups, many owners of flooded homes are still enmeshed in the emotionally fraught and expensive process of deciding whether to repair or elevate, or put their property up for sale.	distant_evaluation
Shields said the months since Harvey have been tough and fears that another major storm before the region fully recovers would be devastating.	distant_anecdotal
“I can survive this once - health, wealth, physically - but I can’t do it again,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
After three floods since 2014, local officials have added home-building restrictions and rules on rebuilding in flood-prone areas, giving owners of damaged homes costly new factors to consider.	cause_specific
Houston officials this year passed an ordinance requiring certain dwellings to be raised to the 500-year floodplain level plus two feet.	cause_specific
Previously, only new homes had to start one foot above the 100-year level.	distant_historical
JACKED UP HOMES	cause_general
The requirements have forced some owners to jack up existing homes to avoid the next flood.	cause_general
“On this street there’s probably less than 30 percent occupancy,” said Shields, who tore down his house after the city ruled damage exceeded half its value and it would have to be elevated before being repaired.	distant_anecdotal
Houston homes, typically built on slab foundations, can be mechanically raised for an average cost of $100,000 to $300,000 in a months-long project, said Wayne Fairley, a managing director at house elevating company Planet Three Elevation.	cause_general
Fairley has tripled his workforce since Harvey to meet growing demand, he said.	cause_general
Subcontractors who once handled plumbing and electrical projects for the company now work for him full time.	cause_general
“There were a lot of contracts signed post-Harvey,” said Fairley.	distant_evaluation
About 5 to 10 percent of his clients are elevating their homes preemptively, and a large portion of his work is in Houston’s Meyerland neighborhood, which was hit by three major floods in recent years.	cause_general
A new home being constructed six feet above the ground to replace the one destroyed by Hurricane Harvey in 2017 is shown in the Meyerland neighborhood of Houston, Texas, May 16, 2018.	error
Photo taken May 16, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Ernest Scheyder	error
Nancy Wilson and her husband decided to tear down and build anew rather than spend the estimated $250,000 to raise and then remodel their 1950s home.	distant_anecdotal
The new house will be six feet higher than the old one, which got two feet of water during Harvey.	distant_anecdotal
He and his wife moved into an apartment and began planning a new, higher home at the same location.	distant_anecdotal
“I’m almost positive it will flood again,” said Wilson, a therapist, who hopes to move back by early next year.	distant_anecdotal
In the interim, the family is living a few miles away in a rental property.	distant_anecdotal
“Honestly, I wish we were rebuilding higher,” said Wilson.	distant_anecdotal
“Six feet might not be high enough.”	distant_anecdotal
STILL IN LIMBO	cause_general
Gwen McGlory moved to west Houston’s Cinco Ranch neighborhood a decade ago for its good schools and gated subdivisions.	distant_anecdotal
Her house flooded after the city released water from a nearby reservoir to relieve stress on a dam, forcing her to find temporary housing.	distant_anecdotal
Now, most mornings she drops her 14-year-old daughter off long before school has opened and picks her up hours after it has closed because the school system lacks funding to provide transportation from her current location.	distant_anecdotal
“It’s concerning when I’m dropping her off at a dark school,” McGlory said, who is worried the transportation issues will continue into the next school year.	distant_anecdotal
McGlory says she received $33,000 from FEMA after Harvey.	distant_anecdotal
It has been roughly nine months since Hurricane Harvey dumped trillions of gallons of water on the U.S. Gulf Coast, killing 68 people and causing an estimated $125 billion in property damage.	cause_general
Of that, $17,000 was earmarked for home repairs, despite bids from contractors pegging her damages closer to $70,000.	distant_anecdotal
The Red Cross worker recently was accepted to a rebuild and repair program run by a community group.	cause_general
“I’m so overwhelmed.	distant_anecdotal
I am working and a single parent with two kids.	distant_anecdotal
I’ve never rebuilt a house before,” said McGlory, who had no flood insurance because her house was not in a floodplain.	distant_anecdotal
While McGlory considered selling her property, an investor shortly after the storm offered $100,000 less than what she had paid for it.	distant_anecdotal
Historically, home values in hard-hit areas can fall between 7 and 20 percent immediately after a flood, said Ed Wolff, president of real estate firm Beth Wolff Realtors and governmental affairs chair for the Houston Association of Realtors.	distant_evaluation
“You see a rebound after 18 to 24 months.	distant_evaluation
As we get further away from the event the memories fade,” said Wolff, who decided to elevate his Meyerland home by almost six feet after Harvey and returned in early May.	distant_evaluation
The devastation of Harvey has pushed local officials and agencies to expand efforts to mitigate the impact of floods.	cause_general
Shields and some 25,000 Texas households are still displaced, according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).	main
Last year, county officials authorized $20 million to buy out homes that have routinely flooded.	distant_historical
The Harris County Flood Control District, which established its own buyout program in 1985, recently submitted a grant for state funding to buy homes damaged by Harvey.	cause_general
It has also focused on repairs to drainage infrastructure and removing debris from Harvey that could block waterways before the next hurricane.	cause_general
Officials across the nation are becoming more aware of the dangers of urban flooding, which is aggravated by unbridled development, said Sam Brody, a professor in the Department of Marine Sciences and flooding expert at Texas A&M University in Galveston.	distant_evaluation
“Harvey exposed these underlying problems that cities such as Houston, Miami and Chicago face,” he said.	distant_evaluation
A new home being constructed six feet above the ground to replace the one destroyed by Hurricane Harvey in 2017 is shown in the Meyerland neighborhood of Houston, Texas, May 16, 2018.	error
Photo taken May 16, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Ernest Scheyder	error
Texas is considering sweeping changes, including urging residents to buy flood insurance and raising the level of new homes, he said.	distant_evaluation
But the measures will take time to implement, Brody said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nearly 80,000 homes across Texas had 18 inches of floodwater or more during Harvey.	distant_historical
“There is a good likelihood we are going to get a major storm event before we are even partially recovered from this one.”	distant_expectations_consequences
In Houston, data on people still out of their homes and awaiting repairs are not available from the city.	cause_general
But U.S.	distant_historical
Postal Service figures show 11,500 Houston homes became vacant between June 2017 and February 2018.	distant_historical
FOUNTAIN, Fla. (Reuters) - After a fitful night of throbbing abdominal pain, curled up in a ball inside her hurricane-battered home trying to wish away the agony, 21-year-old Angelena Sawyer could barely function, let alone tend to her infant daughter.	distant_anecdotal
While Smith cleaned and bandaged Melvin’s foot, his colleagues called the local fire department and arranged for an ambulance to transport Sawyer to the nearest hospital some 30 miles away.	distant_anecdotal
Doctors who treated her later told Sawyer her appendix had nearly ruptured.	distant_anecdotal
The intervention of Smith, Basehore and Pepper had likely saved her life.	distant_anecdotal
At least 29 deaths in Florida have been attributed to Michael, which slammed ashore on Oct. 10 as a Category 4 hurricane and the most powerful on record ever to hit the Panhandle region.	cause_specific
“If it wasn’t for this crew and these men, I wouldn’t have made it to the hospital,” Sawyer told Reuters in a text message following her ordeal.	distant_anecdotal
The three men, all U.S. military veterans, were part of the volunteer group 50 Star Search and Rescue, one of dozens of such outfits formed during previous flood disasters in Texas and Louisiana and reactivated in Florida when Michael struck.	distant_anecdotal
Many, including 50 Star, operated under the banner of CrowdSource Rescue, a larger Houston-based network that coordinated and supported teams on the ground with thousands of volunteers working remotely around the country.	main
Specialized technology was a key to their work.	cause_general
Their search teams relied on a digital application that enables cell phones to operate as walkie-talkie radios, as well as an Uber-like app with global positioning satellite (GPS) map to pinpoint those in distress.	cause_general
Much of their effort was devoted to searching for people whom loved ones reported missing in the hardest hit shorefront communities of Mexico Beach, Panama City and Panama City Beach.	cause_general
50 Star Search and Rescue team member Robert Pepper (L) delivers water to Hurricane Michael survivor Denny Chevillot along the Chipola River in Florida, U.S., October 18, 2018.	error
Teams also fanned out to isolated areas farther inland to deliver meals, water and medical assistance.	cause_general
Their mission, said Smith, 30, was to “make sure that medically everyone is safe and sound and that people have supplies and that there’s no medical emergencies.”	distant_anecdotal
After 11 days, CrowdSource teams succeeded in locating more than 2,800 people initially unaccounted for - all found alive - and turned over about 30 unresolved cases to local authorities, the group’s co-founder, Matthew Marchetti, told Reuters.	cause_general
The groups served some 4,500 meals to survivors during the past weekend alone, he said.	cause_general
While reinforcing the strained resources of official search-and-rescue teams, the volunteers worked largely independently of them, Marchetti said.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (23 Images)	error
Valerie Sale, a Bay County emergency management spokeswoman, said an almost total lack of cell phone and internet service that lasted nearly a week prevented coordination with outside volunteers, but “we’re grateful for their efforts, for sure.”	distant_evaluation
For photo essay, please click on: reut.rs/2Pm79MM	error
REUTERS/Brian Snyder	error
Writhing in misery, Sawyer had no idea she was suffering from acute appendicitis.	distant_anecdotal
Neither did her parents nor her husband, Jacob Sibilia, fully realize the gravity of the situation as they coped with the larger crisis of surviving the aftermath of a natural disaster.	distant_anecdotal
A week already had passed since Hurricane Michael laid waste to rural Bay County, Florida, leaving Sawyer’s family, like many others, essentially stranded without electricity, phone service or running water.	cause_general
They had little if any gasoline, a 3-month-old to care for, and Sawyer’s stepmother, Jessica Melvin, was suffering from an infected foot injury.	distant_anecdotal
The turning point was a random visit that day by three disaster volunteers - Zach Smith, John Basehore and Robert Pepper - checking on residents door to door in the sparsely populated Florida Panhandle community of Fountain, northeast of Panama City.	distant_anecdotal
Assessing Sawyer’s condition, they realized she needed immediate medical attention.	distant_anecdotal
(Reuters) - Florida’s governor mobilized National Guard troops and thousands of Gulf Coast residents were ordered evacuated on Monday, two days before Hurricane Michael was forecast to slam ashore with life-threatening waves, winds and rains.	main_consequence
Many are located in the coastal town of Port St. Joe, the county’s largest municipality, lying directly in the hurricane’s projected path, she said.	cause_general
In neighboring Alabama, Governor Kay Ivey declared an emergency for the entire state on Monday in anticipation of wind damage, heavy rains and power outages.	main_consequence
A satellite image of Tropical Storm Michael taken Monday.	error
NOAA/via REUTERS	error
MICHAEL KILLS 13 IN CENTRAL AMERICA	cause_specific
As the storm moved north it battered Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula and western Cuba with drenching rains and winds of up to 80 mph (130 kph), the Miami-based hurricane center said.	cause_specific
Torrential downpours and flash-flooding over the weekend caused 13 deaths in Central America after Michael formed off the coast of northern Honduras.	cause_specific
In Florida, state offices, schools and universities were set to close on Tuesday through the end of the week in panhandle counties.	main_consequence
Some beach town residents were left to decide on their own for the time being whether to leave their homes.	cause_general
“I haven’t made up my mind yet, but I know some of my staff are going,” said Dave Trepanier, owner of Firefly, a restaurant a block from the beach in Panama City, Bay County, an area where the hurricane is expected to come ashore.	distant_anecdotal
Michael was packing sustained winds of up to 85 miles per hour (140 kph) and gaining strength as it skirted past Cuba’s western tip en route to a likely Wednesday landfall as the most powerful storm to strike the Florida Panhandle in at least a decade.	main
Lines at gasoline stations were growing long in Panama City as people prepared to leave areas under mandatory evacuation, Trepanier said.	distant_anecdotal
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Hurricane Michael would be the first major hurricane to hit the panhandle since Hurricane Dennis in 2005, which made landfall near Pensacola, according to hurricane center data.	cause_general
After striking Florida, Michael is forecast to move up the East Coast on Wednesday and Thursday plowing through the Carolinas, still recovering from Hurricane Florence last month.	distant_expectations_consequences
Energy companies halted nearly a fifth of Gulf of Mexico oil production and evacuated personnel from 10 platforms on Monday.	main_consequence
The Gulf of Mexico is home to 17 percent of daily U.S. crude oil output and 5 percent of daily natural gas output, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.	cause_general
Currently ranked as a Category 1 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson wind scale, Michael could grow into a Category 3, becoming the second major hurricane in the Atlantic basin this year following Florence last month, forecasters said.	cause_general
The storm is expected to unleash coastal storm surges of up to 12 feet (3.7 meters) along Florida’s Panhandle and dump as much as a foot (30 cm) of rain across Florida, Georgia and South Carolina, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) reported.	distant_expectations_consequences
The NHC warned that both could trigger deadly flooding, and that residents within the hurricane warning zone should likewise “prepare for life-threatening winds.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Florida Governor Rick Scott declared a state of emergency in 35 counties along Florida’s Panhandle and Big Bend regions.	main_consequence
Mandatory evacuations were under way in coastal areas, with 1,250 National Guard soldiers aiding the process and more than 4,000 troops placed on standby, Scott tweeted.	main_consequence
“The FL panhandle needs to be prepared for a direct hit with sustained hurricane force winds,” Scott wrote on Twitter on Monday.	distant_evaluation
In Gulf County alone, the first to begin ordering residents of low-lying areas to higher ground, mandatory evacuation notices encompassed an estimated 3,800 homes, said Jessica Sasich of the county’s emergency operations center.	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-13 03:12:44|Editor: yan	error
It listed some of the states likely to be affected to include Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Kogi, Anambra, Edo, Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa, Adamawa, Taraba and Benue.	distant_expectations_consequences
The agency said flooding became alarming on Sept. 7, but the agency was not relenting in its effort to avert any bad situation.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
LAGOS, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- Nigeria's west state of Niger on Wednesday said 1,300 people have been displaced by floods in eight communities in the east part of the state.	main
The communities located around Zungeru Hydro Power Station were submerged following the release of water from Shiroro dam, Ibrahim Inga, director general of the state Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), told reporters in Minna, the state capital.	cause_specific
Inga said farmlands and houses were also affected, adding that the displaced persons have been evacuated to a local primary school.	cause_general
He said the agency was taking inventory of the affected persons to ensure that they were free from diseases.	cause_general
Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) said it was prepared to collaborate with the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) in managing flooding issues across the country.	distant_evaluation
Air Vice Marshal Nnamdi Ekeh, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Logistics Command, said officers and men in the command would give NEMA all the support it needed to perform its roles in flood management.	distant_evaluation
NEMA has issued flood alerts to residents in some states.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-04-26 01:15:38|Editor: ZX	error
"Our staff and volunteers are working around the clock to ensure families in high-risk areas of the country are being evacuated to higher ground,"" he added."	distant_expectations_consequences
The heavy downpours have paralyzed transport in several parts of the country with vehicles even being submerged with motorists have either been stranded for several hours or had to cut short their journey as routes are rendered impassable.	cause_general
Some roads have been cut off making the transport situation in the country a nightmare.	distant_evaluation
This even as the weatherman indicates that the current weather pattern may persist.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Red Cross said it is conducting search and rescue efforts, evacuating families in high-risk areas, providing basic health services and emergency shelter while delivering essential supplies like household items and water and sanitation in evacuation centers.	cause_general
"""The floods have been unforgiving."	distant_evaluation
Many people have already lost their lives, homes and livelihoods.	distant_evaluation
"The situation remains dire -- Red Cross is doing what it can but there is much more to be done,"" Gullet said."	distant_evaluation
The Red Cross said it has supported a total of 5,000 families with emergency shelter and household items as response efforts continue across the most affected areas of the country.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on April 24, 2018 shows a mini bus trapped in the water in Nairobi, capital of Kenya.	error
The Kenya Red Cross Society said on Wednesday that it is providing emergency relief to more than 210,000 people impacted by rising flood waters that continue to wreak havoc in many parts of Kenya.	error
(Xinhua/Fred Mutune)	error
NAIROBI, April 25 (Xinhua) -- The Kenya Red Cross Society said on Wednesday that it is providing emergency relief to more than 210,000 people impacted by rising flood waters that continue to wreak havoc in many parts of Kenya.	main
Abbas Gullet, Kenya Red Cross Society Secretary General, said since torrential rains started last month, homes and farms have been destroyed, livestock has been lost and roads and other infrastructure have been washed away.	cause_general
"""More than 210,000 people have been forced to flee their homes,"" Gullet said in a statement released in Nairobi."	main
"""With heavy rainfall persisting, the flood waters will continue to pose a risk for thousands of people across the country."	distant_expectations_consequences
A boy uses umbrella amid heavy rains in Mogadishu, capital of Somalia, April 27, 2012.	error
The past week has seen a reduction in rainfall activity across Somalia and in the Ethiopian highlands, according to Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)-managed Somalia Water and Land Information Management (SWALIM).	cause_general
However, river levels remain high with flooding continuing along the Shabelle, while water levels are reducing down the Juba River, according to SWALIM.	cause_general
In Belet Weyne town and surrounding areas in Hirshabelle state, flood waters are receding while in Bulo Burto and Jalalasqi flooding levels have increased.	cause_general
(Xinhua/Faisal Isse)	error
MOGADISHU, May 27 (Xinhua) -- At least 21 people have been killed and thousand others affected by floods and storm due to heavy rains pounding parts of the Horn of Africa nation, the UN relief agency has said.	main
The UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said floods and storm which have affected nearly 800,000 people and displaced over 230,000 others have also affected livelihoods, livestock, shelter and key infrastructure across the country.	main_consequence
"""So far, 21 people are confirmed dead including nine in Hirshabelle State, four in Jubaland State and eight in Banadir region,"" OCHA said in its Flash Update."	main_consequence
The Somali government and humanitarian partners are seeking 80 million U.S. dollars to mitigate the impact of the floods and avert a larger scale humanitarian crisis.	cause_general
The relief agencies are also seeking to capitalize on the agricultural potential the rains present in order to address the food insecurity that has been exacerbated by protracted drought.	cause_general
The flooding comes against the backdrop of ongoing efforts to address the effects of previous consecutive drought seasons which left at least 5.4 million people in need of humanitarian assistance.	cause_general
According to the UN, the first half of Somalia's Gu rainy season, which started in March, has recorded an unprecedented amount of rainfall, comparable only to heavy rains last witnessed in Somalia in 1981.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-03 11:07:55|Editor: xuxin	error
Authorities have already declared an emergency in at least six regions of Baja California, involving some 40,000 inhabitants.	cause_general
Schools were suspended across Mexicali, south Ensenada and the San Felipe Valley on Tuesday.	cause_general
According to El Universal, a Mexican daily, one man was killed in Sonora after being swept away by the swollen Las Granjas river.	cause_general
Rosa formed on Sept. 25 around 660 km southwest of Manzanillo, a Pacific Ocean port city in the western state of Colima, and reached a Category 4 hurricane level before abating.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
MEXICO CITY, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- Hurricane Rosa has reduced to a tropical depression west of Mexico's Baja California peninsula but is still generating dangerous weather, said the National Meteorological Service (SMN) on Tuesday.	main
The national weather forecaster published a report at 4 a.m. local time (0900 GMT) and stated that Rosa was 55 km northwest of Ensenada, a port city on the Pacific coast of Baja California peninsula.	cause_general
Rosa is presenting wind speeds of 55 km per hour, gusts of 75 km per hour and moving northeast at around 17 km per hour.	cause_general
The SMN reported intense storms in Ensenada and Mexicali, the capital city of the state of Baja California.	cause_general
At least seven regions in the state of Sonora, on the east of Baja California, will also be hit by storms.	distant_expectations_consequences
At Baja California Sur, the southern end of the Baja California peninsula, storms will be stronger.	distant_expectations_consequences
The report predicted waves of two to five meters high on the west of the Baja California peninsula in the Pacific, and on the west of the Sonoran coast in the Gulf of California.	distant_expectations_consequences
A tree sways in the storm as Hurricane Florence comes ashore in Wilmington, North Carolina, the United States, on Sept. 13, 2018.	error
"""In a matter of seconds, my house was flooded up to the waist, and now it is (up) to the chest,"" New Bern resident Peggy Perry told CNN."	distant_anecdotal
"""We are stuck in the attic,"" Perry said."	distant_anecdotal
In Jacksonville, North Carolina, more than 60 people were evacuated from a hotel after part of the roof collapsed, city officials said.	main_consequence
By Friday morning, Florence had caused a storm surge of 10 feet (3 meters) above normal levels in Morehead City, North Carolina, the National Weather Service said.	cause_general
More than 1,300 flights for Friday had been canceled along the East Coast.	main_consequence
"The storm surge of up to 13 feet (3.9 meters) will be ""life threatening"" and rainfall of up to 40 inches (101.6 cm) will mean ""catastrophic"" flooding, according to the National Hurricane Center."	distant_expectations_consequences
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) administrator Brock Long warned on Thursday that inland flooding could be deadly and the cleanup will take time and patience.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The infrastructure is going to break,"" Long said Thursday morning."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The power is going to go out."	distant_expectations_consequences
It could go out for a number of days, it could go out for weeks.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Xinhua/Liu Jie)	error
"It's very hard to say at this point."""	distant_evaluation
The states of Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland, as well as Washington D.C., declared a state of emergency ahead of the storm.	main_consequence
According to the U.S. National Weather Service, there are 5.25 million residents in areas under hurricane warnings or watches, and 4.9 million in places under tropical storm warnings or watches.	cause_general
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Hurricane Florence on Friday morning made landfall in North Carolina coast as Category 1 storm, with gales and rains.	main
The eye of the storm reached Wrightsville Beach, several miles east of Wilmington, at around 7:15 a.m. eastern time (1215 GMT), with the estimated maximum wind of 150 km/h.	cause_general
It was expected to slowly move southwest into South Carolina before turning north, forecasters said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Florence will dump 40 inches (101.6 cm) of rain in some parts of the Carolina coast, forecasters said.	distant_expectations_consequences
More than 400,000 homes and businesses have lost power across North Carolina overnight, local media reported.	main_consequence
Hundreds of residents were trapped in cars, on roofs and in their attics in North Carolina city of New Bern, which was flooded by the Neuse River.	main_consequence
Rescuers are already underway.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-15 07:10:49|Editor: Yurou	error
In Hampstead, North Carolina, a woman died of a heart attack on Friday since emergency crews could not reach her due to fallen trees in road, local media reported.	main
A fourth person was killed while plugging in a generator in Lenoir County, north of Wilmington, WITN-TV reported.	main
The fifth, a 78-year-old man, was found dead on a street outside of Kinston.	main
He apparently was blown down after he went outside to check on his hunting dogs, local media said.	distant_evaluation
More than 16 inches of rain have fallen in southeast North Carolina and another 20 to 25 inches is on the way, the hurricane center said.	distant_expectations_consequences
"North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper said the hurricane was ""wreaking havoc"" on the coast and will make its ""violent grind across our state for days,"" calling the storm an event that comes along only once every 1,000 years."	distant_evaluation
"""Hurricane Florence is powerful, slow and relentless,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
"""It's an uninvited brute who doesn't want to leave."""	distant_evaluation
In the city of New Bern, one of the hardest hit areas in North Carolina, more than 300 people were trapped in cars, on roofs and in their attics overnight after over 10 feet of storm surge flooded the river-front city.	cause_general
Police said 150 to 200 residents have been rescued earlier on Friday and 150 or more were still awaiting rescue.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
"""In a matter of seconds, my house was flooded up to the waist, and now it is to the chest,"" New Bern resident Peggy Perry told CNN."	distant_anecdotal
"""We are stuck in the attic."""	distant_anecdotal
"""New Bern is just not used to this level of a hurricane,"" with damaging gales, rains, storm surge and flash flooding, said New Bern Mayor Dana Outlaw."	distant_evaluation
In Jacksonville, North Carolina, more than 60 people were evacuated from a hotel after part of the roof collapsed, city officials said.	cause_general
About 600,000 homes and businesses were without power in North Carolina.	cause_general
Nearly 2,100 flights have been canceled through Saturday.	cause_general
The eye of the storm reached Wrightsville Beach, several miles east of Wilmington, around 7:15 eastern time, with estimated maximum winds of 90 mph.	cause_general
It was expected to slowly move southwest into South Carolina before turning north, forecasters said.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Storm surge of up to 13 feet will be ""life threatening"" and rainfall of up to 40 inches will mean ""catastrophic"" flooding, according to the National Hurricane Center."	distant_expectations_consequences
Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator Brock Long warned on Thursday that inland flooding could be deadly and the cleanup will take time and patience.	distant_expectations_consequences
A gas station near the coastline was damaged by the storm in North Carolina, the United States, on Sept. 14, 2018.	error
"The storm surge of up to 13 feet (3.9 meters) will be ""life threatening"" and rainfall of up to 40 inches (101.6 cm) will mean ""catastrophic"" flooding, according to the National Hurricane Center."	distant_expectations_consequences
The states of Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland, as well as Washington D.C., declared a state of emergency ahead of the storm.	cause_general
According to the U.S. National Weather Service, there are 5.25 million residents in areas under hurricane warnings or watches, and 4.9 million in places under tropical storm warnings or watches.	cause_general
At least five people have been killed so far in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence which was downgraded Friday afternoon to a tropical storm with winds of 70 mph (110 km/h) along the U.S. East Coast.	error
(Xinhua/Liu Jie)	error
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- At least five people have been killed so far in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence which was downgraded Friday afternoon to a tropical storm with winds of 70 mph (110 km/h) along the U.S. East Coast.	main
Hurricane Florence blew ashore in the U.S. state of North Carolina with howling 90 mph (144 km/h) winds and terrifying storm surge early Friday, felling trees, splintering buildings, trapping hundreds of people and swamping entire communities along the coast.	cause_specific
A mother and infant were killed by a fallen tree on their house in Wilmington, North Carolina, according to local police.	main
The father was injured in the accident.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-28 06:26:24|Editor: yan	error
The SMN is asking citizens in the states of Baja California Sur, Sinaloa, Nayarit, Jalisco and Colima to take precautions as continued rainfall could lead to mudslides, landslides and overflowing rivers or flooding.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rosa formed as a tropical storm last Tuesday along the western coast of the country and currently authorities in Baja California are staying on pre-alert for the possibility of the storm making landfall during the first few days of October.	cause_specific
Mexico's northwest and west have been hit by heavy rain since last week which led to flooding in local areas and have left at least 13 dead, five of them in Sinaloa and eight in Michoacan, according to official reports.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- Hurricane Rosa has developed to Category 2 and could continue to strengthen as it made its way across the Pacific along Mexico's northwest coastline, the country's National Weather Service (SMN) said Thursday.	main
According to SMN, at 10 a.m. local time Thursday, Rosa sustained winds of 165 kilometers per hour and gusts of 205 kilometers per hour.	cause_general
The hurricane's strong clouds caused storms in northwestern Mexican states.	cause_general
On Thursday morning, the hurricane was located some 855 kilometers southwest of the resort of Cabo San Lucas in the state of Baja California Sur, moving off the coast at a speed of 19 kilometers per hour.	cause_general
The SMN predicted Rosa would strengthen to a Category 3 by Thursday night, when it is expected to be situated some 955 kilometers southwest of the same location in the Baja California peninsula.	distant_expectations_consequences
The storm's projected trajectory showed it would be moving away from the Mexican coast on Friday, but on Saturday would change course and move toward the peninsula, the SMN said.	distant_expectations_consequences
If its projected path holds true, Rosa will be very close to the Baja California coast on Oct. 2 but as a weakened tropical storm with winds of 75 kilometers per hour and gusts of 95 kilometers per hour.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-02 11:01:29|Editor: ZX	error
"Shelters are already in place,"" said Vega."	main_consequence
Director General of the Interior Ministry's civil protection agency Ricardo de la Cruz said Rosa's rains, rather than wind speed, are most likely to cause damage.	distant_expectations_consequences
Some 800 police and rescuers are in place in case of emergency.	cause_general
The Mexican Navy has 1,400 personnel on standby.	cause_general
The local government has suspended school classes on Monday and Tuesday, and the suspension may be extended to Wednesday.	main_consequence
The SMN predicts that Rosa will move through northwestern Mexican Sonora state and into the southwestern U.S. state of Arizona, before it dissipates on Tuesday or Wednesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
MEXICO CITY, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- Tropical Storm Rosa will make landfall on Monday night, forcing an evacuation of some 700 families in the northeast Mexican state of Baja California.	main
Despite weakening from a hurricane to a tropical storm on Sunday, Rosa is still generating winds of 75 km per hour and gusts of 95 km per hour at 1:15 p.m. (2015 GMT) local time, according to the National Meteorological Service (SMN).	cause_general
SMN predicted that Rosa will hit Baja California between 6 p.m. (0100 GMT on Tuesday) and 8 p.m. Monday local time.	cause_general
Around 40,000 inhabitants are facing damage to properties and road closures due to potential flooding caused by the storm.	distant_expectations_consequences
Several states were feeling Rosa's effects on Monday.	distant_evaluation
Baja California governor Francisco Arturo Vega said that the local government has declared a red alert, the highest, for the small coastal town of San Felipe on Baja California peninsula's eastern coast.	main_consequence
"""As a precautionary measure, we are going door-to-door and ordering an evacuation."	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-16 20:02:06|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
Driving through the drier roads of River Bend, fallen tree branches scattered the neatly managed lawns, with one as thick as a car wheel ripped from its roots to smash on top of a house.	cause_general
Many wooden power poles were also knocked down by the strong wind, leaving bare cables lying on ground, spooking locals.	cause_general
Kirkland told Xinhua that the worst times came on Friday morning, and although the wind died down somewhat throughout the day, heavy rain persisted.	distant_evaluation
"""About 40 percent of (the residents in) the town left before the hurricane, and among those left some are in need of rescue, which we have started,"" Kirkland said, lamenting that too many people shrugged off hurricane warnings to have put themselves in dangerous positions."	distant_evaluation
"""We tried to tell them; it's amazing people don't use common sense,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
With the worst part was over, Kirkland hoped that power can be soon restored to his town, but predicted it may take longer than a week.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""In past hurricanes, which were not as bad, it usually took three to four days to get the power back up."	distant_evaluation
"It may be longer this time,"" he said, indicating that the town hall is the only building in town with power."	distant_expectations_consequences
The predicament of River Bend was not unique along the coast of North Carolina and South Carolina, which were on the direct path of Florence.	cause_specific
During a drive through the coastal region of North Carolina, Xinhua saw roads covered with leaves and branches that were blown off trees, large swaths of farmland submerged under water and gas station roofs that were tipped over.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Florence has caused at least 13 deaths in the Carolinas so far, with over 1 million households and businesses without power, nine airports closed and over 2,500 flights canceled through Sunday.	cause_general
Despite slowing down after making landfall early Friday, U.S. weather forecasters are predicting prolonged rainfall and storm surges in the region, urging local residents to exercise caution.	distant_expectations_consequences
"RIVER BEND, the United States, Sept. 15 (Xinhua) -- ""I've lived here for 23 years and the water levels in this hurricane were higher than I've ever seen before,"" John Kirkland, mayor of River Bend, North Carolina, told Xinhua after Hurricane Florence made landfall nearby."	distant_evaluation
Standing in the town hall building in the center of the town, Kirkland said that half of his town is located in a flood plain and has been inundated by the rising water level.	main
On one side of the town hall building lies a children's playground, with only the upper half of slides and swings visible above the water.	main_consequence
The town, placed among a network of waterways with easy access to the ocean, had attracted many who enjoy boating on the calm waters of Pamlico Sound, the largest lagoon on the U.S. east coast.	distant_evaluation
But during hurricane season, this blessing turns into a curse, as the snaking rivers that hug the town with a population of 3,100 suddenly transformed into muddy pipes that flooded the low lying part of the town.	distant_evaluation
Kirkland said his home is also among the dozens of houses in the flood plain and has yet to return to his home since the hurricane hit.	cause_general
He has resorted to staying at the town's fire department for safety.	main_consequence
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-12 04:12:31|Editor: yan	error
"Please be prepared, be careful and be SAFE!"""	distant_evaluation
the president tweeted on Monday.	distant_evaluation
More than 1.5 million Americans living along U.S. East Coast were currently under mandatory evacuations as Hurricane Florence, seen as the strongest storm to take aim at the region in decades is approaching, the authorities said Tuesday.	cause_general
The Trump administration has been widely criticized for its response to Hurricane Maria which killed nearly 3,000 people last year in Puerto Rico and knocked out power for months on most areas of the island.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Donald Trump has cancelled a rally planned for Thursday in the mid-west state of Missouri ahead of Category 4 Hurricane Florence threatening to wreak havoc across U.S. East Coast later this week, his campaign announced on Tuesday.	main
One day earlier, the president also cancelled a similar rally set for Friday in southern state Mississippi.	cause_general
"""With Hurricane Florence on its way, we determined that this is the safest decision,"" Trump campaign chief operating officer Michael Glassner said in a statement on Tuesday."	distant_evaluation
"Also on the day, Trump said his administration is ""absolutely totally prepared"" to respond to Hurricane Florence,"	distant_evaluation
"""We are absolutely totally prepared,"" the president said after returning to Washington D.C. from a 9/11 memorial service in Pennsylvania."	distant_evaluation
"""My people just informed me that this is one of the worst storms to hit the East Coast in many years."	distant_evaluation
Also, looking like a direct hit on North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-13 06:23:53|Editor: yan	error
According to the statement, Honolulu's Emergency Operations Center has been fully activated Wednesday morning, requiring 24/7 until a decision is made to deactivate.	cause_general
The Department of Emergency Management continues to operate eight storm shelters at various locations around Oahu which is home to the state capital Honolulu in coordination with the American Red Cross.	cause_general
The center of Tropical Storm Olivia made landfall this morning with fierce winds and torrential rain near Kahakuloa on the windward coast of the island of Maui and made a second landfall on the northeast coast of Lanai later, according to NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center.	cause_specific
Local officials say the storm caused power outages and road closures in some areas.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
LOS ANGELES, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell signed a proclamation of emergency Wednesday morning to allow all of the resources to be at immediate disposal as Tropical Storm Olivia approaching U.S. Pacific island state of Hawaii.	main
"""We continue to track Tropical Storm Olivia, and we are starting to see the first effects of the storm on Oahu today,"" said Mayor Caldwell in a statement after leading a briefing on the Tropical Storm."	distant_evaluation
"""We encourage our residents and visitors to keep a close eye on the storm as it approaches."	distant_evaluation
If you feel unsafe heading out today, please stay home and stay tuned.	distant_evaluation
"We'll continue to monitor this situation carefully from our Emergency Operations Center to make sure we can react at a moment's notice,"" he added."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""All of our first responders are standing by,"" the Mayor noted."	distant_evaluation
The proclamation was signed in conjunction with the emergency proclamation signed by Hawaii Governor David Ige on Sunday.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 05:55:55|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Florence has killed at least 33 people since blowing ashore as a hurricane on Friday in the states of North Carolina and South Carolina.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
NEW YORK, Sept. 18 (Xinhua) -- The remnants of Tropical Depression Florence flooded roads and subway stations in New York City on Tuesday.	main
The city's five boroughs are under a flash flood watch until 7 p.m. Tuesday as the system is expected to dump up to two inches of rain on the metropolitan area, according to the National Weather Service.	distant_expectations_consequences
The rain started just after 1 p.m. and quickly made a mess of the Bryant Park, Penn Station, 34th Street, and 8th Avenue stations.	cause_specific
Streams of water were seen dripping at the bustling Times Square subway hub and commuters had to wade through a massive puddle in the First Avenue L train station, according to videos posted to social media.	cause_general
"""When it rains it pours in the @NYCTSubway system,"" tweeted a user called jeremy rosenberg, posting a video of water pouring into the Bryant Park station."	distant_evaluation
Across the city, and especially in the borough of Queens, the rain has submerged some streets.	cause_general
A Twitter user posted a photo from Long Island City, showing five men attending to a car in knee-deep water at 37th Ave. and 48th St.	cause_general
Trees and branches are seen on a street after being torn down by strong winds as hurricane Irma arrives in Miami, Florida, the United States, on Sept. 10, 2017.	error
Trees with trunks as thick as half a meter in diameter were ripped out of earth, smashing the windows of nearby cars.	main_consequence
Palm tree branches littered the deserted streets, entirely blocking two lane streets.	main_consequence
Much of downtown Miami has been flooded due to the storm surge, and two construction cranes have also been broken.	main_consequence
TV signals have been completely cut off since early morning and power went out shortly after.	main_consequence
Local media reported that more than 2 million people are out of power in the state of Florida, including three quarters of the Miami-Dade County located in southeast of Florida.	cause_general
Utility officials said it will take weeks to restore electricity to everyone.	distant_expectations_consequences
Local police have imposed a curfew starting 7 p.m. (2300 GMT) Saturday until 7 a.m. (1100 GMT) Sunday, and said police and the fire department will not respond to calls after the wind speed reaches 39 mph, or 63 kph.	cause_general
Nearly 7 million people in southeast United States were warned to evacuate, including 6.4 million in Florida alone, reports said.	cause_general
But the devastating weather has brought people closer.	distant_evaluation
Hunkering down in a hotel lobby, the Baer family was enjoying a game of cards, after a widespread power outage ruled out other forms of entertainment.	distant_anecdotal
(Xinhua/Yin Bogu)	error
"""We just want to make the best out of the situation,"" Doug Baer said, as he dealt cards to his family members."	distant_anecdotal
"""It's better to stay here with other people in a hotel lobby than alone at home."	distant_anecdotal
"We have a German family, a Peruvian family and a mother and a daughter from Barcelona here,"" Baer counted his new acquaintances."	distant_anecdotal
Having gone through Hurricanes Andrew and Wilma, Doug was prepared for Hurricane Irma.	distant_anecdotal
He stocked up on food, water and gas on Tuesday, and booked the hotel rooms for his family in advance to take advantage of the electric generator there.	distant_anecdotal
"""We were relieved to learn that the hurricane has diverted from Miami."	distant_anecdotal
"We are hoping to leave the hotel by Tuesday or Wednesday, if the road to our neighborhood can be cleared,"" he said."	distant_anecdotal
The hurricane, which arrived in Florida as a Category 4 storm, the second highest level on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, weakened to a Category 2 with a maximum sustained wind speed of 177 kph by afternoon as it marched up the state's west coast.	cause_general
After leaving Florida, a weakened Irma is expected to push into Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee and beyond.	distant_expectations_consequences
A tropical storm warning was issued for the first time in Atlanta, more than 300 km from the sea coast.	cause_general
MIAMI, the United States, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- On Sunday morning, many residents in south Florida were not woken by alarm, but by the sound of the howling wind that managed to penetrate even the toughest buildings.	distant_evaluation
"A White House statement said that U.S. President Donald Trump is closely monitoring the situation in Florida, and will travel to the state ""very soon."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"""I hope there aren't too many people in that path,"" Trump said of Hurricane Irma."	distant_evaluation
"""We tried to warn everybody."	distant_evaluation
"That's a bad path to be in."""	distant_evaluation
Just after 9 a.m. local time (1300 GMT), the U.S. National Hurricane Center announced that Category Four Hurricane Irma finally made landfall in the Florida Keys, after a week of anticipation of what was said to be one of the strongest hurricanes to have formed over the Atlantic Ocean.	main
The Florida Keys are a coral cay archipelago located off the southern coast of Florida	cause_general
Authorities said 27 people have been killed by Hurricane Irma in the Caribbean.	main_consequence
The death toll is expected to rise as the path of the hurricane is projected to cross ill-prepared population centers in west Florida.	distant_expectations_consequences
Flight charts showed that the hurricane has made the entire state of Florida and the lower half of Georgia no-fly zones.	main_consequence
As the eye of the hurricane crept past the Florida Keys and onto the continent, rainfall and wind speed steadily strengthened in Miami,battering towering palm trees and lowly bushes alike, bending them to their limit or breaking them altogether.	main_consequence
Aerial photo taken on Sept. 1, 2017 shows flooded houses after Hurricane Harvey attacked Houston, Texas, the United States.	error
Hurricane Maria now ranks as third costliest weather and climate disaster on record for the nation, with Irma coming in close behind as fifth costliest, it said.	cause_general
"""Since 1980, the U.S. has sustained 219 weather and climate disasters that have exceeded 1.5 trillion dollars in overall damages to date,"" the U.S. agency wrote."	cause_general
"""The 1980-2017 annual average is 5.8 events; the annual average for the most recent five years (2013-2017) is 11.6 events."""	cause_general
The U.S. agency also said that the average U.S. temperature in 2017 was 54.6 degrees Fahrenheit (12.6 degrees Celsius), 2.6 degrees Fahrenheit above the 20th century average.	cause_general
"""This was the third warmest year since record keeping began in 1895, behind 2012 (55.3 degrees Fahrenheit) and 2016 (54.9 degrees Fahrenheit), and the 21st consecutive warmer-than-average year for the U.S. (1997 through 2017),"" the report said."	cause_general
In fact, the five warmest years on record for the contiguous U.S. have all occurred since 2006, it noted, reflecting a long-term warming trend.	cause_general
(Xinhua/Yin Bogu)	error
"WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 (Xinhua) -- Last year will be remembered as the ""costliest"" one for the United States with losses from hurricanes, fires and freezes reaching a record 306 billion U.S. dollars, a U.S. government report said Monday."	main
The United States had 16 weather and climate disasters in 2017 each with losses exceeding one billion dollars, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said in its report.	cause_specific
That ties 2011 for the record number of billion-dollar disasters for an entire calendar year, but the total cost shatters the previous U.S. annual record of 214.8 billion dollars in 2005, the agency said.	cause_general
At least 362 people died and many more were injured during the course of the disasters that included one drought event, two flooding events, one freeze event, eight severe storm events, three tropical cyclone events, and one wildfire event, it said.	cause_general
Among the disasters are the western U.S. wildfires that caused damages tallying 18 billion dollars, which was triple the previous U.S. record, said the report.	cause_specific
Losses from Hurricane Harvey, which caused massive flooding in Texas, exceeded 125 billion dollars, which ranked second only to Hurricane Katrina, the costliest storm in the 38-year period of record.	cause_specific
Hurricanes Maria and Irma had total damages of 90 billion dollars and 50 billion dollars, respectively.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-15 04:55:18|Editor: yan	error
Many domestic animals, including cattle, were also lost to the floods.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
LAGOS, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Nigeria's emergency agency has placed all disaster response units across the country on red alert due to rising water levels, an official said Friday.	main
Water levels across the country have been rising consistently due to heavy rainfall, Mustapha Maihaja, director-general of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), said.	cause_specific
He said NEMA has identified 12 frontline states that might be prone to floods this year, noting that floods could occur any time in those states.	distant_expectations_consequences
Meanwhile, police in northeast Adamawa has advised riverine communities in the state to relocate before Saturday to avoid impending flood.	distant_evaluation
Habibu Musa, a police spokesperson, said the call became necessary as neighboring Cameroon would release excess water from Lagdo Dam.	distant_evaluation
He urged the affected communities to cooperate with security personnel and other emergency workers while relocating to safer areas.	distant_evaluation
Floods had killed more than 10 persons and displaced scores of others in the state, following the recent heavy rainfall.	cause_general
People walk on a street in Santiago de Cuba, in eastern Cuba, on Oct. 5, 2016.	error
Cuba's government lifted the hurricane warnings and watches for its eastern provinces.	cause_general
While still a category 4 hurricane, Matthew made landfall in Cuba at 6 p.m. local time (2200 GMT) Tuesday, in Punta Caleta, in the province of Guantanamo.	cause_general
With gusts between 200 and 250 kilometers per hour, and heavy rains, Matthew blew the roof off homes, damaged buildings, including the area's iconic Hotel La Rusa, knocked down trees and electric poles, caused coastal flooding and washed away at least one bridge, Guantanamo's main newspaper, Venceremos, reported.	main_consequence
Area residents contacted by Xinhua via cell phone said rains continued in Guantanamo and Santiago de Cuba early Wednesday, but the island's emergency response system appears to have prevented casualties.	distant_evaluation
The U.S. states of Florida and North Carolina have declared a state of emergency, while South Carolina on Wednesday ordered the evacuation of coastal residents.	cause_general
Hurricane Matthew battered the eastern tip of Cuba on Tuesday evening with strong winds, heavy downpours and floods along the coasts of Guantanamo Province.	error
(Xinhua/Str)	error
HAVANA, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Hurricane Matthew bore down on the Bahamas on Wednesday, after lashing eastern Cuba late Tuesday and through the night.	main
"Though downgraded to a category 3 hurricane as it headed northwards towards The Bahamas and Florida, the storm was still considered ""severe"" by the Miami-based U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC)."	distant_evaluation
"""Severe Hurricane Matthew bearing down on The Bahamas and aiming toward Florida,"" the agency's latest weather advisory said."	cause_general
"In the Bahamas, Prime Minister Perry Christie has been urging residents ""to take the threat of Matthew seriously"" since at least Monday, the capital's Nassau Guardian daily reported on its website."	distant_evaluation
The concern is that Matthew is expected to make landfall on the most populated of the Bahamas' 700 islands and islets.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""New Providence, where 85 percent of our population lives, will take a direct hit,"" Christie warned during a press conference Tuesday, adding ""what I'm telling you is get off the coastline."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-01 15:01:19|Editor: Yamei	error
The tsunami with the height of 0.5 to 3 meters devastated coastal areas near Talisa beach in Palu city and Donggala district, the meteorology and geophysics agency revealed.	cause_specific
Indonesia is prone to earthquakes as it sits on a vulnerable quake-affected areas called the Pacific Ring of Fire.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on Sept. 30, 2018 shows the view inside a building in Palu in Central Sulawesi province, Indonesia.	error
(Xinhua/Iqbal Lubis)	error
JAKARTA, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- Death toll of earthquakes and tsunami in Central Sulawesi province of central Indonesia has climbed to 1,203 on Monday.	main
Reports released by Disaster Management Institute of Indonesia, Care for Humanity and Humanity Data Center revealed that the data was counted in the provincial capital of Palu and Donggala district, not including figures from two other affected districts of Parigi Mountong and North Mamuju.	cause_general
The data was obtained from four hospitals and three villages, one sub-district and one police station, as well as one mosque in Palu city and Donggala district.	cause_general
Powerful and shallow under-earth quakes of measuring 6.0, 7.4 and 6.1 magnitude and a tsunami devastated the province on Friday, with the hardest-hit area being provincial capital Palu and Donggala district.	cause_specific
A total of 215 after-shocks have stricken the province so far.	cause_general
JAKARTA, Aug. 3 (Xinhua) -- A 6.1-magnitude earthquake rocked Maluku off eastern Indonesia on Friday, but no warning of tsunami was issued, the meteorology and geophysics agency said.	main
The quake jolted at 12:42 local time (0542 GMT) with an epicenter 43 km southwest of Maluku Tenggara and a depth of 65 km, Yusuf Khaidar Ali of the agency said.	cause_general
"""This quake did not trigger a potential tsunami so we did not issue a warning accordingly,"" he told Xinhua."	cause_general
Spokesman of the national disaster management agency Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said the quake did not cause any damage or casualties.	cause_general
The temblor only triggered strong shakes in western part of Kai Island, sending panicked local people on the island to the streets, said Sutopo.	distant_evaluation
"Indonesia sees frequent quakes as it sits on a vulnerable quake-prone zone of ""the Pacific Ring of Fire."""	distant_evaluation
TOKYO, March 23 (Xinhua) -- An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.1 struck off the Pacific coast of Miyagi Prefecture in the southern Tohoku Region of Japan, the weather agency here said Friday.	main
According to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA), the temblor occurred at 6:32 a.m. local time, at a latitude of 38.9 degrees north and a longitude of 142.1 degrees east.	cause_general
The offshore quake originated at a depth of 50 km, the JMA also said.	cause_general
The quake measured 4 on Japan's seismic intensity scale which peaks at 7 in parts of Miyagi Prefecture and registered 3 on the scale in neighboring Iwate Prefecture, according to the JMA.	cause_general
The JMA, however, has not issued a tsunami warning as a result of the moderately powerful temblor.	cause_general
There have been no reports, as yet, by local officials, of injury or damage to persons or property as a result of the quake.	cause_general
No abnormalities have been reported at nuclear power plants in the region, including at the crippled Daiichi nuclear facility in nearby Fukushima Prefecture, in northeast Japan.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-13 20:52:06|Editor: xuxin	error
On Wednesday, the National Emergency Management Agency said flooding became alarming in Adamawa and 11 other states since Sept. 7, but the agency was not relenting in its effort to prevent any worse situations.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
ABUJA, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- At least 10 people have been confirmed killed and hundreds of others displaced by flood in Adamawa State of Nigeria's northeast region, a local official said on Thursday.	main
Many hectares of farmlands have also been destroyed by the flood caused by recent heavy rainfalls in the state, Muhammed Suleiman, scribe of the State Emergency Management Agency, told reporters.	main
According to Suleiman, many communities across nine local areas located at the bank of River Benue, the second longest river in Nigeria, were affected by the flood.	distant_evaluation
He said more than half of the state population was currently under threat of impending flood.	cause_general
Local residents also lost hundreds of domestic animals, including cattle, to the disaster.	cause_general
The official said the extent of damage is alarming and that flooding has become a very serious challenge and posed a threat to farming activities in the northeast state.	distant_evaluation
"""This causes a more serious threat to food security in the state,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-13 02:12:25|Editor: yan	error
She encouraged all key stakeholders to support the recovery and rebuilding efforts in all the areas affected by natural disasters across the country.	distant_evaluation
As part of the efforts to improve green growth in the country, Vincent Biruta, Rwandan minister of environment, said that the government of Rwanda aims to carry out environmental management initiatives that will help permanently address disasters related to climate change.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""With more natural disasters looming as we enter the rainy season, it is important that all stakeholders do what they can to help protect the environment and mitigate natural disasters,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
The meeting brought together government officials, representatives from the private sector, civil society organizations, non-governmental organizations and development partners among others.	cause_general
The forum tackled the country's major environmental issues, such as climate change, pollution, land and forest degradation and renewable energy among others.	cause_general
According to the ministry of disaster management and refugee Affairs, at least 222 people lost their lives and 14,491 houses were destroyed in natural disasters caused by heavy rains across Rwanda between January and June this year.	cause_specific
The heavy down pour also destroyed 8,978 hectares of crops, 49 bridges, and 754 livestock lost their lives in the same period.	cause_specific
Rwanda spent more than 911,915 U.S dollars as relief aid packages to the affected population, according to the ministry.	cause_specific
Rwanda targets to have a forest cover of 30 percent by 2018, a goal that is likely to be achieved earlier given that, presently, forest cover is at 29.6 percent of the nation, according to the ministry of lands and forestry.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
KIGALI, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- Rwanda on Wednesday announced plans for sustainable green investments aimed at improving environmental and climate change management in order to reduce the country's vulnerability to natural hazards.	main
Speaking at a national forum on re-greening Rwanda, Francine Tumushime, minister of lands and forestry, said that green investments such as forest cover restoration, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction of the use of charcoal and fuel wood will help the country to mitigate natural disaster risk.	main
"""From January to June this year, Rwanda was severely affected by natural disasters caused by heavy rain which claimed at least 222 people."	main
"We are putting in much effort to invest in green economy to mitigate this catastrophe in future,"" she noted."	main
The one day meeting focused on discussing sustainable ways to boost green economy and reduce environmental risks while improving human well-being and social equity.	cause_general
According to De bonheur Jeanne d'Arc, Rwandan minister disaster management and refugee affairs, strengthening risk management through re-greening Rwanda is essential for advancing green growth in light of climatic change.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Working together, coordinating our efforts towards greening Rwanda is one of the mitigation measures to reduce disaster risks,"" she added."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-08 20:41:32|Editor: xuxin	error
"He said that ""international donors have accomplished some international standard hospitals while work on others is speedily underway."""	distant_evaluation
The graveyards in the quake-hit areas were flooded with large numbers of people, who were there to offer prayers for the departed souls.	cause_general
Meanwhile, many people took to Twitter on the 13th anniversary to express their grief over the tragic disaster, with journalists sharing their stories of laborious coverage on the day of deadly earthquake of Oct. 8 in 2005.	cause_general
The 7.6-magnitude quake left tens of thousands injured and over 3.5 million homeless.	distant_historical
Approximately 19,000 children were killed in the earthquake mainly due to collapses of school buildings, according to the figures provided by government.	distant_historical
The earthquake also demolished over 600,000 houses, more than 6,000 educational institutions, health units and government buildings.	distant_historical
Most of the casualties had occurred in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir.	distant_historical
Also, at least 73 people were killed and 100 others injured in the country's capital city of Islamabad.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
ISLAMABAD, Oct. 8 (Xinhua) -- Various events are being held in Pakistan in connection with the 13th anniversary of the devastating earthquake of Oct. 8, 2005 that killed nearly 100,000 people and left millions homeless, mostly in northern areas of the country, local media reported on Monday.	main
Special prayers, seminars, pictorial exhibitions, candle vigils and awareness walks are being held in schools, colleges, private as well as government institutions to remember the victims of the deadly earthquake and create awareness among the general public to reduce the loss of life and property damage.	main
People representing all walks of life including social and political workers, lawyers, journalists and members of the business fraternity attended the ceremonies.	cause_general
The attendees pay tribute to Pakistan armed forces, people and government of Pakistan, the international community and donor agencies for their generous participation in relief and rehabilitation work.	cause_general
One-minute silence was observed at 8:53 a.m. in the morning and sirens were blown to pay glorious tributes to the victims of history's worst catastrophe.	main
National flag was being hoisted half-mast on all public buildings of the state to mark the anniversary.	main
Barrister Iftikhar Gilani, a minister from Pakistan-controlled Kashmir, vowed to accomplish all ongoing reconstruction projects in education sector as early as possible.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-24 23:47:26|Editor: mym	error
"""If we do not take action at national and international level by the end of the 21st century, the cost of natural disasters in our country will amount to 700 billion euros (823.8 billion U.S. dollars)."	distant_expectations_consequences
"It is twice the debt of Greece,"" warned Zerefos."	distant_evaluation
As one of the experts Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras turned to in the aftermath of the tragedy, Zerefos described the scenes in Mati, only 29 km east of Capital Athens, as a battlefield after bombardment.	distant_evaluation
The signs of disaster are still visible, as hundreds of gutted houses are left in ruins and people are still accommodated at camps, according to Zerefos.	cause_general
The Greek prime minister has requested their scientific knowledge and experience for dealing with natural disasters and avoiding such tragedies in the future.	cause_specific
One of the main causes of the fire, according to Zerefos, is that the firefighting forces did not manage to control it in the first five minutes, as strong winds were blowing in the area.	distant_evaluation
Another bad estimate was that the wind would change direction and that Marathon Avenue, where Marathon race was born 2,500 years ago, would serve as a natural obstacle to the blazes, something that did not happen.	cause_specific
"""In the disaster, except from the pine trees, more than 200 cars were also burned in the area."	cause_general
The burning of cars equals to about one and a half gasoline tank, explosions occurred and temperatures rose too much, having reached 1,300 degrees Celsius.	distant_evaluation
"So it was like a war, as if the area had been bombarded,"" Zerefos explained."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
For Zerefos, preventing such kind of disaster from happening again is also very important.	distant_evaluation
"""If we strengthen the prevention and protection mechanisms, a process that has already begun, this cost will be reduced to around 400 billion euros (470.7 billion U.S. dollars)."	distant_expectations_consequences
"It is important therefore to adapt as it is important to try to learn to live with the extreme phenomena,"" the Greek scientist concluded."	distant_evaluation
Some flood control projects have already entered into force in the afflicted areas of Attica and will cost 17 million euros (20 million U.S. dollars), according to a recent Greek Economy and Development ministry pres statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
The aim is to shield the affected areas against natural disasters, and to protect and regenerate the ecosystems.	cause_general
Last week the number of the victims from the deadly fire in Mati rose to 99, as one woman was succumbed to her injuries.	cause_general
The 26-year-old lost her battle to life after a long stay in the Intensive Care Unit.	cause_general
There are still 17 injured in hospitals.	cause_general
(1 euro =1.177 U.S. dollars)	error
The beach where hundreds of civilians ran to avoid the deadly wildfire on the 23rd of July is seen in Mati, eastern Attica, on Sep. 24, 2018.	error
Two months have passed since the wildfire that took 99 lives and burned down hundreds of houses and buildings in Mati, 29 kilometers east of Athens.	error
(Xinhua/Marios Lolos)	error
by Natasha Pavlopoulou	error
MATI, Greece, Sept. 24, (Xinhua) -- Two months after Greece's seaside resort of Mati was engulfed by a devastating wildfire, which had claimed 99 lives, a distinguished Greek climate expert has warned of the risks of more extreme weather and called for actions to deal with them.	main
As Mati's local authorities are still trying to heal the wounds of fire, Christos Zerefos, Supervisor of the Research Center for Atmospheric Physics and Climatology of the Academy of Athens and member of various International Scientific Committees, warned in a recent interview with Xinhua that the climate change will make us more often face extreme weather events, either strong winds or heavy rainfall.	main
And he urged for actions by the end of this century to get Greece better ready for natural disasters.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-21 01:50:12|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
About 76 percent of the world's deadly tsunami occurrences take place in the Pacific Ocean and connected seas.	cause_general
Five deadly tsunamis have hit the region over the past eight years: Samoa and Tonga were hit in 2009, Chile in 2010 and 2015, Japan in 2011 and the Solomon Islands in 2013.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
"PARIS, Sept. 20 (Xinhua) -- Over 40 countries in the Pacific Rim will participate in a mock tsunami scenario for September-November period this year to test their ""tsunami decision-making procedures and communication systems and processes,"", UNESCO (UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) said Thursday."	main
"Called Exercise Pacific Wave 2018 (PacWave18), the 8th Pacific Tsunami drill ""will simulate Pacific countries in a Tsunami Warning situation requiring government decision-making and community action, essentially all aspects of the Disaster Risk Reduction cycle,"" said UNESCO, a sponsor of scientific studies and exercises on warning systems for various types of natural disasters."	main
Thanks to the PacWave18, concerned countries would have the opportunity to test new tools including tsunami wave forecasts that will allow each country to better assess its own tsunami threat, according to the Paris-based UN body.	distant_expectations_consequences
As part of the exercise, participating countries would select from seven different Pacific scenarios based on real events from the past and conduct at least a Tabletop Exercise within the period of September to November, it noted.	main
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii, NWPTAC in Japan, and the SCSTAC in China would send simulated warnings, which would trigger a country's tsunami response that would be evaluated by experts, it added.	main
"""The events of the 2009 Samoa Islands Region, 2010 Chile, 2011 Japan, and the February 2013 Solomon Islands tsunamis have increased our need to be more prepared for such events,"" said Vladimir Ryabinin, Executive Secretary of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission."	distant_evaluation
"""This important exercise will validate the enhanced products for future official use by countries of the Pacific Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System,"" he added."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-15 07:20:52|Editor: Yamei	error
In Harris County of the Greater Houston region, 51.89 inches (131.8 cm) of rain -- the highest storm total in U.S. history -- was recorded over the six-day period through Aug. 30, 2017.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
HOUSTON, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Governor of U.S. state of Texas on Friday issued a State Disaster Declaration for 78 counties impacted by severe weather and flooding as a tropical storm approaches the state.	main
"Governor Greg Abbott said, ""While we stand ready to deploy state resources to assist local officials in their response efforts, it is critical that all Texans in the storm's path are prepared to ensure their own safety."""	distant_evaluation
Prior to the disaster declaration, the governor has ordered the Texas State Operations Center to increase its readiness level in response to the storm.	cause_general
Heavy rainfall, floods and gusty winds are expected across portions of Texas on Friday and Saturday due to an atmospheric event in the Gulf of Mexico.	distant_expectations_consequences
Meanwhile, Hurricane Florence is smashing U.S. East Coast with strong winds and storm surges on the coasts of North Carolina and South Carolina.	cause_general
One year ago, Hurricane Harvey made landfall on Aug. 25 at a Mexico Gulf coastal town in southeastern Texas as a Category 4 hurricane.	distant_historical
As the most powerful tropical storm to have hit Texas in more than 50 years, it dropped heavy rain and caused record catastrophic flooding in Houston and the surrounding region.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-03 07:35:18|Editor: xuxin	error
However the data shows that 21 percent lived in a county where a flood was recorded over the time period; 25 percent a tornado; 4 percent a hurricane and 4 percent drought.	cause_specific
"About 59 percent of respondents agreed that ""there is solid evidence that the average temperature on Earth has been getting warmer over the past few decades."""	cause_specific
"Of respondents who agreed with this statement, 74 percent agreed that Earth was warming mostly due to ""human activity such as burning fossil fuels."""	cause_specific
"""This research shows people's perception of extreme weather can be processed through partisan lenses,"" said Ben Lyons, a researcher at the University of Exeter and the study's lead author."	distant_evaluation
The study found that Republicans are less likely to report experiencing a polar vortex, while those exposed to liberal media are more likely.	main
Nevertheless, the weather sometimes can be so extreme that it overshadows personal views, the researchers say.	distant_evaluation
They found that partisanship and media use did not affect the way people in the U.S. Northeast, where the 2014 and 2015 polar vortex events hit hardest, reported the weather they had experienced.	cause_specific
Those who favored liberal news sources reported experiencing drought more often than national weather data would suggest they actually did.	cause_specific
The study has been published in the journal Environmental Communication.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
CHICAGO, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- Political bias and partisan news reporting influence whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events, a new U.S. study showed.	main
The researchers surveyed 3,057 people in the U.S. to ask them about the extreme weather they had experienced over a five-year period.	cause_specific
Participants were asked where they live and if they believe in climate change, human causation and the scientific consensus on the matter.	cause_specific
The experts then compared these answers to official weather reports for that region for the same time period.	cause_specific
Data about the weather was taken from the Storm Events Database compiled by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Weather Service.	cause_specific
The data included droughts, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes.	cause_specific
Nearly 22 percent of respondents reported experiencing a polar vortex; 41 percent a drought; 20 percent a tornado; 29 percent a flood and 17 percent a hurricane in the past five years.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-09 20:24:40|Editor: xuxin	error
The quake logged the maximum 7 on Japan's seismic intensity scale, marking the first time for Hokkaido since the seismic scale was revised in 1996, according to Japan's weather agency.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
TOKYO, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) -- The death toll from the strong earthquake that rocked Japan's Hokkaido on Thursday has risen to 42, while one person in the town of Atsuma, one of the hardest-hit areas by the quake, is still missing, the Japanese government said on Sunday.	main
The government's top spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, told a press conference that a total of 41,000 people and 74 helicopters were searching for the one last missing person and helping the disaster-hit areas.	cause_general
At one point after the powerful quake on Thursday, some 2.95 million homes in Hokkaido were without electricity as the whole prefecture suffered a power outage.	cause_general
Suga said that power had been restored in almost all areas except for a few households that are difficult to reach.	cause_general
He urged homes and offices already with power to cut usage by about 20 percent to prepare for power shortage as demand will rise on weekdays.	distant_expectations_consequences
As heavy rain is expected to continue in some of the quake-hit areas on Monday, he urged the residents to be wary of possible landslides and other secondary disasters as well as aftershocks.	distant_expectations_consequences
An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.7 struck Hokkaido prefecture at 3:08 a.m. local time Thursday (1808 GMT Wednesday).	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-12 00:51:47|Editor: xuxin	error
"""The injured are undergoing treatment at different hospitals."""	cause_general
Reports said some of the injured were shifted to hospitals in Karimnagar and Hyderabad.	cause_general
According to Rajesham, the ill-fated bus was returning from Kondagattu to Jagtial town.	cause_general
Kondagattu hills are famous for Anjaneya Swamy Temple where Hindu devotees throng on Tuesdays and Saturdays.	cause_general
Officials said the victims were pilgrims who had visited the temple and were on way back home.	cause_general
Following the accident, locals informed police, who along with disaster response force personnel and medical teams, rushed to the spot to carry out rescue work of moving the injured to hospitals and retrieving bodies from the gorge.	cause_general
Officials said the cause of the accident was negligent driving on part of bus driver.	cause_specific
"""No sooner we got the information we rushed to the spot to carry out rescue work."	cause_general
"Over two dozen passengers had died on spot,"" Rajesham said."	cause_general
"""Preliminary investigations reveal the bus was being driven negligently and that became the reason for the mishap."""	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
However, later on some of them died while being taken to medical facilities and others succumbed inside the hospitals.	cause_general
Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed grief over the accident and announced financial assistance of 6,877 U.S. dollars for each family that lost member in the accident.	main_consequence
The local government has rushed senior ministers to the district to oversee treatment to injured at the hospitals.	cause_general
Meanwhile, Indian President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have expressed shock and anguish over loss of lives in the deadly accident in Telangana.	distant_evaluation
Photo taken on Sept. 11, 2018 shows the site of bus accident in Telangana, India.	error
The death toll in Tuesday's bus accident in southern Indian state of Telangana has risen to 57, officials said.	error
(Xinhua/Stringer)	error
NEW DELHI, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- The death toll in Tuesday's bus accident in southern Indian state of Telangana has risen to 57, officials said.	main
The accident took place near Shanivarapet village of Jagtial district, about 176 km north of Hyderabad, the capital city of Telangana.	cause_specific
According to officials, the bus belonging to Telangana State Road Transport Corporation with 80 passengers on board, skidded off a mountainous road and fell into a gorge at around 11:45 a.m. (local time).	cause_specific
"""The death toll in today's tragic accident has now risen to 57 and the dead include children and women,"" B Rajesham, joint collector Jagtial told Xinhua over telephone."	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 18:48:17|Editor: Yurou	error
Moyo said government interventions followed Mnangagwa's declaration of the outbreak as a state of disaster on Sept. 12.	cause_specific
"""Pursuant to this development, our preparedness in terms of geographical coverage is national while in terms of response more focus will be on the cholera hotspots,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
He said in the worst case scenario an estimated 100,000 people, including those in transit, could be affected, but the most likely scenario was about 50,000.	distant_expectations_consequences
The worst cholera outbreak to hit the country took place from Aug. 2008 to June 2009 when 98,596 cases of cholera were reported, resulting in 4,369 deaths.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa (C) arrives at Glen View Polyclinic as he visits the cholera affected patients in Harare, Zimbabwe, Sept. 19, 2018.	error
Emmerson Mnangagwa has approved a 64 million U.S. dollar budget for immediate needs in the fight against a cholera outbreak that has so far killed at least 30 people in the capital Harare, a Cabinet minister has said.	error
(Xinhua/Shaun Jusa)	error
HARARE, Sept. 19 (Xinhua) -- Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has approved a 64 million U.S. dollars budget for immediate needs in the fight against a cholera outbreak that has so far killed at least 30 people in the capital Harare, a Cabinet minister has said.	main
Funds will also be used to fight typhoid which has also hit the city and other parts of the country, chairperson of the Cabinet committee on emergency preparedness and disaster management July Moyo told state run newspaper Herald.	main
It is anticipated that well-wishers will donate to the fund, with donations such as fuel, protective clothing, cean up tools, refuse receptacles, food and water purification chemicals being channeled through the Harare Town Clerk's office.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said cash donations should be made to the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, whose minister Mthuli Ncube last week announced the establishment of a crowd funding initiative to help fight the outbreak.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-15 21:28:14|Editor: xuxin	error
Video Player Close	error
NEW DELHI, Sept. 15 (Xinhua) -- A medium-intensity earthquake hit the northern Indian state of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, officials said.	main
The quake occurred in the state's Kinnaur district.	main
"""The earthquake measuring 3.4 on Richter Scale jolted the district."	main
"Fortunately, there have been no casualties or damage to properties,"" a disaster relief force official said."	cause_general
Another northern state, Haryana, was struck by two quakes this week.	cause_general
While a quake of 3.1-magnitude hit the state's Jhajjar district Wednesday, with tremors being felt in the Indian capital and its adjoining areas, the first one measuring 3.8 on Richter Scale was reported Sunday.	cause_general
Some northern Indian states fall in seismic zone.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-19 20:32:01|Editor: Lu Hui	error
Monitoring and early warnings of meteorological, flooding, and geological disasters should be enhanced and inspections of major areas should be strengthened to prevent disasters and secondary disasters, Xi said.	main
The State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, Ministry of Natural Resources, and Ministry of Emergency Management should coordinate all social forces and resources, and guide local governments to carry out relief work and make all-out efforts to ensure the safety of people's lives and property and social stability, Xi said.	main
Flood-hit regions have launched emergency responses and taken all efforts to relocate people and repair facilities.	cause_general
The State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, Ministry of Natural Resources, and Ministry of Emergency Management have dispatched work teams to flood-hit areas to lead relief work.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, July 19 (Xinhua) -- President Xi Jinping has stressed a people-centered approach to flood control and disaster relief work and urged all-out efforts to ensure the safety of people's lives and property.	main
Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remark in an instruction on flood control and disaster relief work as rainstorms have hit many regions across the country, triggering landslides and flooding of rivers since July.	main
Noting that China has entered flood and typhoon season, Xi urged Party committees and governments of related regions to firmly adhere to a people-centered approach, carry out rescue and relief work at full strength, minimize casualties, properly arrange people's lives in disaster areas and reduce disaster losses to the minimum.	main
Since July this year, rainstorms have hit many regions, triggering flooding of rivers, including the Yangtze, Yellow, Jialing, Tuojiang, and Fujiang rivers.	cause_general
As of July 18, a total of 20.53 million people in 27 provincial-level regions had been affected by flooding with 54 dead and eight missing.	cause_specific
Flood disasters also affected 1.759 million hectares of crops and flattened 23,000 houses, inflicting direct economic losses of 51.6 billion yuan (7.6 billion U.S. dollars).	cause_specific
Xi ordered local authorities of relevant regions to strengthen emergency duties, fulfill responsibilities, and refine planned measures to ensure disasters can be addressed quickly.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-08 21:15:38|Editor: ZX	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Sept. 8 (Xinhua) -- China's central government has distributed funds totaling 155 million yuan (about 22.7 million U.S. dollars) to areas hit by floods or mudslides to help local disaster relief efforts, according to the Ministry of Emergency Management.	main
The funds were allocated for Guangdong and Yunnan provinces, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the ministry said.	main
The funds will be used for relocation of the affected, emergency livelihood support, rebuilding of damaged homes and compensation for the deceased, according to the ministry.	cause_general
China's disaster relief authorities have launched a level IV emergency response for the severe floods and mudslides in the regions, sending multiple workgroups to assist with local disaster relief work.	cause_general
VIENTIANE, July 29 (Xinhua) -- The reporting and sharing of fake news and photos on the dam collapse disaster in southern Laos violates the Lao laws, a national ad hoc committee in charge of dealing with the disaster warned.	main
"The committee issued the warning Saturday after learning that some social media users both in Laos and abroad as well as media organizations had published reports containing many ""incorrect"" statements, local state-run online newspaper Vientiane Times reported Sunday."	cause_specific
These fake reports had been issued since the disaster occurred on July 23, it said.	cause_specific
The committee called on everyone in Laos and other countries, media organizations and social media followers to pay attention only to accurate reports and photos published by the state-run media such as newspapers, radio and national TV, which regularly report on developments in the situation.	distant_evaluation
After the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy hydropower reservoir's saddle dam D burst on Monday, flash floods swamped villages in Sanamxay district, Attapeu province, some 560 km southeast of capital Vientiane.	cause_specific
The committee warned that false reports and the sharing of fake news and photos about the flooding in Attapeu province as well as fake news and photos about weather condition and storms across the country violate Lao laws and regulations.	main
Children attend a handover ceremony of disaster risk reduction projects in Kombeza area, a disaster-prone area in central Malawi's Salima district, March 16, 2018.	error
He especially singled out the construction of evacuation centers as it will stop the tendency of taking people to facilities such as schools when there was no a disaster and that the facilities will also be used for other issues in the communities.	cause_general
He commended the support the Malawian government has continued to receive from China, saying this has contributed to the uplifting of people's living standards.	distant_evaluation
On his part, the Chinese envoy thanked all the partners in the project and promised to continue working with authorities in coming up with projects to benefit the local people.	distant_expectations_consequences
People dance during a handover ceremony of disaster risk reduction projects in Kombeza area, a disaster-prone area in central Malawi's Salima district, March 16, 2018.	error
China on Friday handed over projects to disaster-prone regions of Malawi to help them build resilience and reduce effects of the disasters.	error
(Xinhua/Peng Lijun)	error
He said China's collaboration with the UNDP in the project has been a successful, adding that the disaster risk reduction project will help the communities build resilience and reduce effects of disasters.	distant_expectations_consequences
China, he said, has always been ready to support Malawi in times of disasters and that the Chinese government provided 600,000 U.S. dollars after the disaster caused by climate change in 2015 as well as 10,000 tons of rice to tackle hunger caused by food shortages.	distant_historical
He further said Chinese enterprises have also been supporting the government in times of disasters.	cause_general
The UNDP representative said the project was due to partnership of the governments of China and Malawi as well as the communities and that as a pilot project, other countries will also be looking at the success of the project to replicate it.	distant_expectations_consequences
China on Friday handed over projects to disaster-prone regions of Malawi to help them build resilience and reduce effects of the disasters.	error
(Xinhua/Peng Lijun)	error
SALIMA, Malawi, March 17 (Xinhua) -- China has handed over projects to disaster-prone regions of Malawi to help them build resilience and reduce effects of the disasters.	main
The handover ceremony held in Kombeza area, a disaster-prone area in central Malawi's Salima district, about 93 kilometers from the capital Lilongwe, was attended by Clement Chintu Phiri, Secretary to the Vice-President and Commissioner for Disaster Management Affairs, Chinese Ambassador to Malawi Wang Shiting as well as United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Resident Coordinator Maria Jose Torres.	cause_general
Launched in June 2016, the Disaster Risk Reduction Small Grants Scheme was supporting poor and vulnerable communities in 15 identified disaster prone districts and was a trilateral pilot project being undertaken by the Malawian government, with the technical and financial support of the Chinese government and the UNDP.	cause_general
Among the projects are four evacuation centers, a dyke and two check dams meant to hold water.	cause_general
In his remarks, the Malawian government official thanked China and the UNDP for the project, saying they will go a long way in building resilience in communities against disasters.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said tackling disasters was expensive and unsustainable without the support of the cooperating partners.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-21 17:09:43|Editor: xuxin	error
"""In the affidavit it has been stated by the government that it is treating the flood situation in the state as a disaster of serious nature and has categorised the same as 'L3 Level of disaster' under the national disaster management guidelines,"" an official said."	main
Experts said the declaration would enable the state to get greater monetary and other assistance from the federal government.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Once a calamity is declared ""severe"", relief in repayment of loans or grant of fresh loans on concessional terms are also considered."	cause_general
Reports said relief materials, including provisions, water, medicines and fuel are arriving at the Kochi port from different parts of India.	cause_general
Local government officials said they were trying to restore mobile phone connectivity, electricity supply and tap water in the affected areas.	cause_general
The movement of traffic is also being restored.	cause_general
"""Commercial flight operations started from the navy airstrip in Kochi and trains have started running between state capital Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam,"" an official said."	cause_general
So far the Indian government has announced an assistance of 85.9 million U.S. dollars for the battered state.	cause_general
Besides, help from other states and people is continuously pouring in.	cause_general
Reports said the death toll since the beginning of monsoons has risen close to 400 in the state.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
The Kerala government has pegged the losses to the state through damage to infrastructure and property at 2.87 billion U.S. dollars.	cause_general
However, the industry estimates the losses by way of loss of working days, cancellations and drop in economic activity to be close to 3.5 billion U.S. dollars.	cause_general
On Tuesday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has offered to extended 100 million U.S. dollars of assistance to rebuild the flood-ravaged state.	cause_general
Kerala has 44 rivers flowing through it.	cause_general
Experts said floods in Kerala would not have been so severe if local authorities had gradually released water from at least 30 of its dams.	distant_evaluation
Students offer prayers for the Kerala flood victims at a school in Agartala, capital of the Northeastern state of Tripura, India, on Aug. 21, 2018.	error
The Indian government has declared the devastating floods in southernmost state of Kerala as a calamity of severe nature, officials said Tuesday.	error
(Xinhua/Stringer)	error
NEW DELHI, Aug. 21 (Xinhua) -- The Indian government has declared the devastating floods in southernmost state of Kerala as a calamity of severe nature, officials said Tuesday.	main
"""Keeping in view intensity and magnitude of the floods in Kerala, the government has declared this a calamity of severe nature,"" Indian vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu said."	main
"""We appeal our members of parliament to contribute generously from their funds towards relief and rehabilitation."""	distant_evaluation
The Indian federal government in an affidavit to the high court in Kerala stated that it considers the devastating floods in Kerala as a calamity of severe nature.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-19 21:50:06|Editor: Chengcheng	error
Typhoon Rumbia has caused direct economic losses of over 1.1 billion yuan (160 million U.S. dollars) in the province.	cause_general
More than 4,000 houses have been damaged.	cause_general
An emergency response was launched in Anhui on Sunday afternoon.	cause_general
Disaster relief teams have been dispatched to affected areas to assess conditions and deliver supplies to affected residents.	cause_general
Local departments are also repairing and examining infrastructure including roads, drainage and buildings.	cause_general
In neighboring Henan Province, around 888,000 residents have been affected by Typhoon Rumbia.	cause_general
As of Sunday noon, one person has been reported dead.	main
Nearly 109,000 hectares of crops have been affected by heavy rain brought by the tropical storm.	cause_general
The direct economic losses are estimated at 198 million yuan, including 190 million yuan in agricultural losses.	cause_general
Between Friday morning and Sunday morning, rainstorms have battered the eastern and northern parts of Henan, according to the provincial meteorological observatory.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
Three meteorological stations have seen precipitation exceeding 500 millimeters, while daily precipitation has set records in eight meteorological stations in the province.	cause_specific
In the northern parts of the province, rainstorms will last in the daytime on Sunday and will move out of the province at night.	distant_expectations_consequences
Local civil affairs departments have dispatched personnel to disaster-hit areas to evacuate and relocate affected residents and examine the damage.	cause_general
They are also monitoring changes in the weather, river water levels and disaster conditions.	cause_general
Heavy rain and floods also disrupted train services scheduled to pass the province, according to Beijing railway authorities.	cause_general
NANJING, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) -- Nine people have been confirmed dead after Typhoon Rumbia, the 18th this year, wreaked havoc across central and eastern China.	main
As of 2 p.m. Sunday, seven people have been reported dead and 18 others injured after heavy rain hit eastern Chinese city of Xuzhou.	main
More than 924,000 people and about 68,000 hectares of crops have been affected.	cause_general
More than 1,800 houses have been damaged.	cause_general
Nine cities and 33 counties across east China's Anhui Province have also been hit by heavy rain, according to the provincial disaster relief and civil affairs departments.	cause_general
As of Sunday noon, one person has been confirmed dead and 13 others were injured.	main
More than 1.7 million people and nearly 243,000 hectares of crops have been affected, local authorities said.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-16 03:34:28|Editor: yan	error
In neighboring Anambra state, authority also advised people living in floods-prone areas to immediately relocate to approved Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) centers across the state.	cause_general
The state said it had established 28 camps across the state for possible flood victims.	cause_general
The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency had listed 12 states as areas likely to be affected by floods.	distant_expectations_consequences
The agency said on Wednesday that the water level in central Kogi, one of the states, had neared the 2012 level at 10.66m and called for vigilance by residents.	cause_general
In 2012, NEMA reported that floods killed 363 people and displaced over 2.1 million others in 30 states.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
LAGOS, Sept. 15 (Xinhua) -- Local authorities in Nigeria's southern state of Edo on Saturday said 30,000 people have been displaced by floods in more than 35 communities in eastern and central part of the state.	main
The disaster had gone beyond the purview of local government council areas, Aremiyau Momoh, chairman of Etsako East, told reporters in Benin city, the state capital.	distant_evaluation
On his part, John Akhigbe, chairman of Etsako Central, called for urgent intervention from both the state and the federal governments.	cause_general
The duo said camps for the displaced had been placed in strategic locations across the council areas.	cause_general
Similarly, about 700 houses including large farmlands have been affected by flash floods following heavy rains in parts of oil rich Rivers state.	cause_general
Martins Ejike, a coordinator of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), told reporters in Port Harcourt, the state capital, that the floods began since August.	cause_specific
Ejike advised people living in affected areas to relocate to higher ground for temporary shelters in case of the bigger floods.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-02 19:51:45|Editor: Liangyu	error
It damaged homes, cut electricity supply and communications, and caused cave-ins in the township.	cause_general
The provincial civil affairs and meteorological authorities have activated emergency responses to the disaster.	cause_general
Rescue work is underway.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Rescuers work in flood in Mengdong Township in Malipo County of Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture of Wenshan, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Sept. 2, 2018.	error
A flood has left five people dead and 16 others missing on Sunday in southwest China's Yunnan Province.	error
The flood was caused by heavy rain that started pounding Mengdong Township early Sunday.	error
(Xinhua)	error
KUNMING, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- A flood has left five people dead and 16 others missing on Sunday in southwest China's Yunnan Province, local authorities said.	main
The flood was caused by heavy rain that started pounding Mengdong Township, Malipo County, in small hours on Sunday, according to the county's publicity office.	cause_specific
The disaster has also injured five people.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-10 23:54:54|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Meanwhile, more than 10,000 people in 15 prefectures were still staying under evacuation shelters as of Tuesday noon, with blazing heat now compounding the problem.	cause_general
According to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA), an active seasonal rain front caused torrential rain in most eastern and western regions of Japan since last Thursday.	cause_specific
The agency has warned that Japan's Kinki region, which includes Kyoto, Hyogo and Osaka prefectures, could be particularly hard-hit by downpours, escalating the risk of floods, landslides, lightning and tornadoes.	distant_expectations_consequences
Regarding the heavy casualty, Emi Masatani, an expert from Japan Bousaisikai, a non-profit disaster-prevention organization, told Xinhua that people in Japan normally attach great importance to prevention of natural disasters, but sometimes fail to pay enough attention to heavy rainfalls as they are predictable.	distant_evaluation
According to local reports, many people chose to stay at home even after the weather agency issued emergency warnings and evacuation orders following the heavy rain and thus lost the chance to escape when flooding or landslides occurred.	cause_specific
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who canceled his trip to Europe and the Middle East to attend to the disaster, told a meeting of the government's crisis response unit that reserve funds would be made available before requests came in from local governments.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""We will assess the needs of victims and push for quick reconstruction,"" the prime minister said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Abe is scheduled to visit Okayama prefecture on Wednesday to inspect the damage and assess the evacuees' needs.	cause_general
Japan's top government spokesperson Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a press briefing that the government is likely to tap into reserve funds of about 2 billion yen (18 million U.S. dollars) to help deal with the disaster's aftereffects.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Farm Minister Ken Saito said that damage caused to agriculture, including mountain forests, paddy fields and reservoirs, had already topped 7 billion yen (63 million U.S. dollars).	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
The Fire and Disaster Management Agency said that as of Tuesday morning, 347 homes have been partially or completely destroyed by the downpours or in landslides and 9,868 homes have been flooded.	cause_general
The extent of the damage is likely to rise significantly, the agency said, as many municipalities have yet to report the full extent of the damage.	distant_expectations_consequences
Abe also said that to address food and water shortages in some of the disaster areas, trucks carrying food and water stocks to retail stores, including convenience stores, will be considered emergency vehicles.	cause_general
The Health Ministry said that as of Tuesday morning, nearly 300,000 homes spanning 12 prefectures in western Japan were still without water supply.	cause_general
To safeguard their workers, some major businesses in the disaster-hit regions have halted production, including at Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and a subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corp.	cause_general
Photo taken on July 10, 2018, shows submerged and destroyed houses in a flooded area in Kurashiki, Okayama Prefecture, Japan.	error
The death toll in the wake of torrential rainfall causing flooding and landslides in western Japan reached 148 people, officials said Tuesday.	error
(Xinhua/Ma Ping)	error
TOKYO, July 10 (Xinhua) -- The death toll continued to rise while government stepped up search and rescue efforts after torrential rain pummeled western Japan, causing flooding and landslides.	main
According to Japan's public broadcaster NHK, 158 people have been confirmed dead in 12 prefectures and 56 people are still unaccounted for.	main
Hiroshima prefecture was hit hardest by the record rainfall and subsequent landslides, with death toll there reaching 59, while Okayama prefecture suffered 54 deaths.	cause_specific
The government and local municipalities have stepped up search and rescue efforts to find the 56 people that are still unaccounted for, and as most of the people missing are in Hiroshima, death toll could further rise in the prefecture.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-12 14:10:57|Editor: mmm	error
Video Player Close	error
BAZARAK, Afghanistan, July 12 (Xinhua) -- At least 10 villagers were killed and several others went missing after a dike of a lake burst and triggered flood, which hit a remote village in eastern Afghanistan's Panjshir province early Thursday, authorities said.	main
The office of State Ministry of Disaster Management and Humanitarian Affairs said in a statement that the number of casualties may go up.	distant_expectations_consequences
The rescue and search teams dispatched to the area and two helicopters carrying disaster management officials arrived at the scene to monitor situation in the mountainous Panjshir valley, the statement added.	cause_general
The dike of Pishkandah lake, located at a high mountain, collapsed overnight, with water flooding nearby Pishghor village at around 12:20 a.m. local time Thursday, deputy provincial police Chief Colonel Najim Khan told Xinhua.	cause_specific
The lake contains thousands of cubic meters of water and the flooding continued till Thursday morning.	cause_general
The flooding destroyed around 500 houses and several mosques as well as agriculture lands in the village which is located in Hisa-i-Awal-i-Panjshir district in the province, 200 km north of Kabul.	cause_general
The dike burst could be caused by early spring melting of ice and glaciers in and around the lake that may have been triggered by global warming, the police official said citing local anti-disaster officials.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-23 16:54:48|Editor: Liangyu	error
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, Aug. 23 (Xinhua) -- The Ministry of Emergency Management said Thursday that three teams have been sent to provinces that could be severely affected by this year's 19th typhoon, Soulik.	main
The teams, composed of personnels from disaster relief, fire control and work safety departments, will assist local efforts to prepare for possible disasters in the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang in northeast China, and Shandong Province in the east, the ministry said in a statement.	main
"""They will carry out inspections of local work in disaster relief and prevention, focusing on work arrangements, preventative measures, rescue teams, fund and material preparation, relocation and precautions taken by companies,"" the statement said."	cause_general
China on Thursday renewed a blue alert for Typhoon Soulik, which is expected to move northeast at a speed of about 10 km per hour, and make landfall on the Korean Peninsula Thursday evening, the National Meteorological Center said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Influenced by the typhoon and cold air, northeast China regions will be hit by heavy rain from Thursday to Saturday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Coastal regions including Shandong is expected to be hit by moderate to strong gales.	distant_expectations_consequences
China has a four-tier color-coded weather warning system for typhoons, with red representing the most severe, followed by orange, yellow and blue.	cause_general
VIENTIANE, Aug. 8 (Xinhua) -- The Lao government has announced it will examine the safety standards applied to the construction of hydropower dams across the country following the deadly disaster caused by the collapse of a dam in Attapeu province in the south, local media reported Wednesday.	main
The failure of the dam on July 23 flooded 13 villages in Sanamxay district, leaving 34 people dead as of Tuesday while 97 villagers still missing, and over 6,000 homeless.	cause_specific
The investigation committee is chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Government Inspection Authority Bounthong Chitmany.	cause_general
The committee welcomes the help of international experts in carrying out the investigation and verifying the cause of the dam fracture.	distant_evaluation
The committee will also invite representatives of the governments of South Korea and Thailand, whose companies were stakeholders in the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy hydropower project, to provide consultation and observe the investigation process.	distant_expectations_consequences
This will ensure the thoroughness and transparency of the investigation so that the findings are recognized and accepted internationally, the report said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Once the findings are made known, the government will proceed with the next steps.	distant_expectations_consequences
The meeting also agreed to establish a high-level committee, supervised by Bounthong, to investigate the responsibility of state authorities for the dam failure, as well as those in charge of issuing warnings ahead of the disaster.	cause_general
The National Ad Hoc Committee in charge of dealing with the aftermath of the Sanamxay flood was told to collect comprehensive information on the losses and damage caused by the disaster.	cause_general
The Ad Hoc Committee was also entrusted to draw up short-term and longer term plans to recover the damage and losses and report to the government so that investment in the recovery could be prioritized.	cause_general
The cabinet made the announcement shortly after its two-day extraordinary meeting which ended on Tuesday.	cause_specific
Chaired by Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith, the meeting heard of the progress made in dealing with the aftermath of the disaster in Sanamxay district of Attapeu province.	cause_specific
The meeting agreed to carry out inspections into all dams, both those that are completed and whose construction is underway.	main
The Ministry of Energy and Mines will work with the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, the Ministry of Science and Technology and international experts in carrying out the inspections.	main
Any irregularities found in the design or construction standard of a dam must be reported to the government on a case-by-case basis, so that improvements can be made, local daily Vientiane Times reported on Wednesday.	cause_general
The Lao government has also decided to suspend the consideration of new investments in hydropower projects in order to review its hydropower development strategy and plans.	main
The reviewed strategy and plans will be used as a reference for future direction, the report said.	cause_general
The meeting, attended by cabinet members, agreed to establish a taskforce committee to lead the investigation into the reason of the collapse of saddle dam D, one of five auxiliary dams at the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy hydropower project in Attapeu, some 560 km southeast of capital Vientiane.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-04 00:55:05|Editor: yan	error
Over 5,500 residents have been evacuated.	cause_general
They have been provided with tents, daily necessities and medical treatment in temporary relocation sites.	cause_general
Ministry of Emergency Management and local government departments have sent tents, beds, quilts, raincoats, boots, water, food and medicine to people affected by floods.	cause_general
Meanwhile, sanitation and epidemic prevention, traffic and power departments have also dispatched personnel to deal with post-disaster problems.	cause_general
Traffic has resumed on roads damaged by floods, and power supplies and communication facilities have been reconnected.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
URUMQI, Aug. 3 (Xinhua) -- Twenty people have died in floods caused by torrential rain in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Tuesday, authorities said Friday.	main
Another eight people remain missing after the downpours hit Qincheng Township in Hami from 6 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on July 31, according to the regional disaster relief headquarters.	main
Over 8,700 houses, farmland, roads, railway lines, and power and telecommunication facilities were damaged in the floods.	cause_general
In one hour rainfall reached 110 mm, while the previous highest recorded level was only 52.4 mm in the area, said the headquarters.	cause_general
The floods triggered a partial breach of a reservoir, as the floodwater flowing into the reservoir reached 1,848 cubic meters per second, tripling the maximum of 537 cubic meters per second designed to withstand the worst flood in 300 years.	cause_specific
Li Zhong, from the headquarters, said the regional Party committee and government have set up headquarters for relief operations.	cause_general
More than 3,000 people including officials, soldiers, and medical staff have taken part in the efforts so far.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-20 23:47:52|Editor: Li Xia	error
Over the past two days, Typhoon Son Tinh, which rapidly weakened into a tropical depression, has brought torrential rain and high levels of waters in rivers and reservoir lakes to the two regions.	cause_specific
According to Vietnam's National Center for Hydro-meteorological Forecasting, heavy rain may last for the next few days in the regions, and more flash floods and landslides are likely to hit Thanh Hoa and Nghe An.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Photo taken on July 20, 2018 shows flood affected region in Son La Province of Vietnam.	error
Downpour and flooding triggered by Typhoon Son Tinh killed eight people and left 20 others missing in Vietnam's central and northern regions, according to the country's Central Steering Committee for Natural Disaster Prevention and Control on Friday evening.	error
(Xinhua/VNA)	error
HANOI, July 20 (Xinhua) -- Downpour and flooding triggered by Typhoon Son Tinh killed eight people and left 20 others missing in Vietnam's central and northern regions, the country's Central Steering Committee for Natural Disaster Prevention and Control said on Friday evening.	main
The rain and flooding also destroyed or swept away hundreds of houses, damaged many roads in three northern province of Yen Bai, Son La and Quang Ninh and the two central provinces of Thanh Hoa and Nghe An, and inundated over 80,000 hectares of rice.	cause_general
Yen Bai was the hardest hit by the rain and flooding, seeing six people die, 18 people listed as missing, and over 600 damaged houses.	main
The flooding and landslides on many sections of national and provincial roads in the province disrupted traffic for hours.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-19 21:47:24|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
More than 1,200 houses were destroyed, and the total direct economic losses were put at 1.47 billion yuan.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
BEIJING, July 19 (Xinhua) -- The ministries of Finance and of Emergency Management have allocated 170 million yuan (about 25 million U.S. dollars) to help with flood relief work in west China's Sichuan and Gansu provinces.	main
The money will be used to relocate people affected by the floods, reconstruct collapsed houses and provide financial aid for flood victims, said a source of the Ministry of Emergency Management.	distant_expectations_consequences
China's disaster relief authorities launched a level-IV emergency response plan last week in the two provinces to address rainstorm and flood disasters.	cause_specific
About 932,000 people in Sichuan Province were adversely impacted by floods caused by heavy rains by midday last Thursday, with three deaths and 101,000 people evacuated.	cause_specific
Over 600 houses were destroyed, and 36,900 hectares of farmland were flooded.	cause_specific
The direct economic losses were estimated at 2.4 billion yuan.	cause_specific
Gansu Province saw about 1.08 million people affected, with 12 deaths, four people missing and 27,000 people evacuated.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-30 00:45:27|Editor: yan	error
Video Player Close	error
JAKARTA, Sept. 30 (Xinhua) -- The death toll of Friday's multiple powerful quakes, which triggered a tsunami in Central Sulawesi province of Indonesia, climbed to at least 405 on Saturday evening, a government official said.	main
Strong and shallow quakes of 6.0, 7.4 and 6.1 magnitude followed by a tsunami devastated the province with the hardest-hit area in Palu, the provincial capital and Donggala district.	cause_specific
The authorities urged to bury the casualties who have been identified and continue scouring and rescuing the victims underneath the debris of the rattled houses and other buildings, spokesman of the country's information and communication ministry Ferdinandus Setu said.	cause_general
The latest death toll was announced by the national disaster management agency.	cause_general
The spokesman of the ministry revealed that the main airport in the province has been operating but only serving relief efforts.	cause_general
Communication facilities have also been functioned in several parts of the province, which is helpful to the coordination for the relief efforts, said the official.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-08-17 10:48:19|Editor: xuxin	error
"""In some areas there was as much as 85 millimeters of rainfall, an unprecedented figure,"" Chimalhuacan Mayor Cesar Alvaro Ramirez said in a statement."	cause_specific
"""Up to now, we have information that 1,252 families were affected by the atypical rainfall,"" said Ramirez."	cause_general
Videos broadcasted by local media showed firefighters evacuating elderly residents in rafts while others waded through knee-deep water in their homes.	cause_general
Soldiers, firefighters, police and government employees were dispatched to help pump water from affected homes Thursday morning.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
MEXICO CITY, Aug. 16 (Xinhua) -- Torrential rains in Mexico City's outlying areas have claimed two lives and damaged 135 homes, local authorities said on Thursday.	main
A man and a woman died in the community of Chimalhuacan as a result of an unusually heavy rain Wednesday night that lasted for about 40 minutes.	main
Local media said the woman was walking with her 10-year-old son when a flash flood swept them down the street.	distant_anecdotal
A man attempting to help them was also swept away.	distant_anecdotal
The two adults died of their injuries.	cause_general
Homes were damaged in both Chimalhuacan and the nearby district of Nezahualcoyotl, according to the authorities.	cause_general
The rains also caused a river to overflow and flood a ridge which surrounds the capital, resulting in various vehicles being swept away, according to a statement issued by the State of Mexico.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-11 00:16:40|Editor: yan	error
"South Carolina emergency management officials said they were ""preparing for the possibility of a large-scale disaster."""	distant_expectations_consequences
About 750 National Guard members were expected on duty in the state.	distant_expectations_consequences
The U.S. Navy said all ships in Virginia's coastal Hampton Roads area were preparing to leave port for open seas Monday, according to reports.	distant_expectations_consequences
Heavy rain in the Washington D.C. area over the weekend has already led to flooding in historic Alexandria, Virginia, local media reported, and the U.S. National Weather Service issued a flood watch for part of the Potomac River.	cause_general
Hurricanes reaching Category 3 and higher are considered major hurricanes because of their potential in causing a significant loss of life and damage.	cause_general
Florence, the first major hurricane of the Atlantic season, was once a Category 4 hurricane last week, packing maximum sustained winds of 215 kph, before weakening gradually to a tropical storm, which regained hurricane strength Sunday morning.	cause_general
Officials said the largest threat to life from hurricanes is not the high winds, noting that flooding is the deadliest result of these storms.	distant_evaluation
Current forecast models indicate that Florence could strike the Carolinas and enter central Virginia, possibly stalling and dropping more than 20 inches of rain in some areas.	distant_expectations_consequences
That will lead to widespread and dangerous flooding, inundation of roads and damaged infrastructure.	distant_expectations_consequences
Potential widespread power outages are also expected.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
The U.S. National Guard urged local residents and visitors to prepare for rising waters, flash flooding.	distant_expectations_consequences
Florence is one of three hurricanes churning in the Atlantic Ocean, along with Helene and Isaac.	cause_general
While Helene is forecast to spin to sea away from land, Isaac is a real threat to the Caribbean later this week, according to the NHC.	distant_expectations_consequences
In addition, in the Pacific Ocean, what's now Hurricane Olivia is forecast to approach Hawaii as a tropical storm on Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
"WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- Florence has rapidly strengthened into a major hurricane as it's approaching the southeastern U.S. coast,"" the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) said Monday."	main
The center of Florence was located about 2,000 kilometers east-southeast of Cape Fear, state of North Carolina, packing maximum sustained winds of 185 km per hour (kph), moving west at 20 kph, according to the latest advisory published by the weather forecaster.	cause_specific
On the forecast track, the center of Florence will move over the southwestern Atlantic Ocean between Bermuda and the Bahamas Tuesday and Wednesday before approaching the coast of South Caroline or North Caroline on Thursday, said the NHC.	distant_expectations_consequences
Florence, a Category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale, is expected to further intensify and remain an extremely dangerous major hurricane through Thursday, it added.	distant_expectations_consequences
The governors of South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia have declared states of emergency.	main_consequence
"""Now is the time for your family also to prepare and stay tuned for more updates,"" South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster said."	distant_evaluation
"""Plan for the worst, pray for the best."""	distant_evaluation
NEW DELHI, June 13 (Xinhua) -- At least 10 people were killed and several others injured after lightning struck them at different places in India's eastern state of West Bengal, officials said Wednesday.	main
The lightning struck Bankura, Hooghly, West Midnapore, Birbhum and North 24 Parganas districts on Tuesday.	main
"""Yesterday lightning killed 10 people and injured several others in the state,"" a disaster management official said."	main_consequence
"""Four people were killed in Bankura district, three in Hooghly, and one each in West Midnapore, Birbhum and North 24 Parganas."""	main_consequence
On Tuesday the state received its first major spell of rain from the southwest monsoon.	cause_specific
The downpour led to severe water logging and a delay in train services in Kolkata city.	cause_general
India's Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rain at isolated places in West Bengal over the next 24 hours, and has advised fishermen to avoid venturing into the sea.	distant_expectations_consequences
Last month storms accompanied by lightning and rains killed over 250 people and injured more than 400 in five states.	cause_general
MOGADISHU, May 2 (Xinhua) -- Somalia President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed has appealed to the international community to support efforts to help 500,000 people affected by the floods that has displaced close to 175,000 from their homes.	main
"In the past week we have been able to raise additional money to target assistance for food, water, sanitation and non-food items to be able to respond,"" Foss said."	cause_general
The UN has warned that the heavy rains were worsening conditions in overcrowded Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) settlements and displacing more people along riverine areas due to flooding.	distant_evaluation
The settlements have limited access to hygiene facilities, thus heightening the risk of communicable diseases.	distant_expectations_consequences
According to the OCHA report, some 246,000 people are at risk of flash floods in Baidoa, Southwest region, while in Jubbaland approximately 28,200 people have been displaced by floods, which swept away home, shelters, farms and livestock.	cause_general
In Belet Weyne, more than 200,000 people are at risk of being affected by floods after River Shabelle burst its banks, forcing many to flee the town to higher grounds.	cause_general
Meanwhile, a team comprising AU troops and Somali national security forces has evacuated more than 10,000 people marooned by the raging floods in Belet Weyne, HirShabelle state.	cause_general
"""We are taking part in the evacuation of Somali people so as to rescue them from flooded areas and take them to a place near Eel Jaale far from floods,"" said Col Abdourahman Rayale Hareed, the Commander of Djibouti's Hiil 5 Battalion who led the rescue mission."	cause_general
Mohamed who visited Somalia's central region of HirShabelle to assess the impact of flooding on Monday said his government was taking action to address the humanitarian crisis caused by the floods.	distant_evaluation
"""We have formed a national disaster committee to respond to the needs of our fellow citizens who have been affected,"" he said in a statement issued on Tuesday evening."	cause_general
Mohamed who led a high-level delegation, which included representatives from the UN and the AU Mission in Somalia to the city of BeletWeyne, said his government stands by residents affected by the floods morally and materially to deliver all the help that it can.	distant_evaluation
The humanitarian crisis was caused by the Shabelle River, which begins in the Ethiopian highlands and flows through BeletWeyne and the HirShabelle state capital of Jowhar, burst its banks following the onset of heavy rains which began last month.	cause_specific
According to the government, other states affected by the heavy rains include Jubbaland and South West state.	cause_specific
The heavy rains and flash floods come only months after a devastating drought left over 6 million people in need of humanitarian assistance last year.	cause_specific
Yngvil Foss, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) deputy country director for Somalia rainfall in recent weeks, has been heavier than anticipated.	distant_evaluation
"""Initially, all humanitarian actors started responding with the means and assets they had available."	cause_general
Facing complaints that it has not done enough to rebuild New Orleans, the Bush administration announced Wednesday that it would ask Congress for $4.2 billion more to compensate Louisiana residents whose homes were severely damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.	main
But in the past week, state officials said, Donald E. Powell, the president's coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding, became convinced that the federal government should do more to help homeowners in the flood plain who did not have flood insurance.	cause_specific
The $4.2 billion will be part of an $18 billion supplemental budget request for hurricane-related costs in the current fiscal year that the Bush administration expects to present to Congress this week.	distant_expectations_consequences
The full request will include money for loans to help storm-damaged small businesses, to repair flood walls and to replenish the Federal Emergency Management Agency's disaster relief fund.	distant_expectations_consequences
Officials in Louisiana and New Orleans had said more aid was needed to cover huge gaps between the cost of wind and flood damage from the two hurricanes and the amount that homeowners and landlords would receive in insurance payments.	cause_specific
Insurance industry analysts have estimated that the gap in coverage on houses and rental units totals $8.4 billion across the state, including $5.4 billion in New Orleans.	distant_evaluation
State officials had said they would need as much as $12 billion in assistance to rebuild houses, provide incentives to apartment developers and help compensate homeowners who choose to sell ruined homes at a loss.	cause_specific
Andrew Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, said about 100,000 severely damaged and 67,000 less-damaged homes in Louisiana would be the main beneficiaries of the money.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Kopplin said grants would be capped at $150,000 per home, less payments by FEMA and insurance companies.	distant_expectations_consequences
The $4.2 billion plan does not include money for commercial property owners.	cause_general
Insurance analysts estimate that the insurance shortfall totals $9.5 billion for state businesses ranging from small groceries to large corporations.	distant_evaluation
The money will come from $18 billion that the administration said last month it would request from Congress this year for hurricane relief.	distant_expectations_consequences
Relief for those businesses comes mainly from Small Business Administration loans, which so far total about $485 million.	cause_general
The Bush administration had raised concerns about whether Louisiana had a clear plan for reconstruction and whether it could be held accountable for the huge influx of federal aid it was about to receive.	distant_evaluation
But on Wednesday, Mr. Powell said that he had become convinced that the state was addressing both issues.	cause_specific
Ms. Blanco said that on Monday the recovery authority would release spending guidelines for the federal aid, which will be given to the state in the form of community development block grants administered by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.	distant_expectations_consequences
The guidelines will not be a detailed rebuilding plan for New Orleans, which is still being developed by a commission appointed by Mayor C. Ray Nagin.	cause_general
Mr. Isaacson said the guidelines would make clear that only homes in certain neighborhoods would be eligible for money, which could include aid to help homeowners raise their homes and make them more flood- and hurricane-resistant.	distant_anecdotal
The announcement was praised by Louisiana officials who said that the $4.2 billion, when added to $7.7 billion in rebuilding money approved by Congress last year, would be enough to help anyone in the state who owned a storm-wrecked home.	distant_evaluation
''I am here to say a special thank you to the president,'' said Gov.	main_consequence
Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, who flew in for a news conference at the Capitol.	main_consequence
Ms. Blanco, a Democrat, had criticized the White House for falling short of President Bush's pledge to ''do what it takes'' to reconstruct New Orleans.	distant_evaluation
The $4.2 billion request was a turnabout for the administration, which three weeks ago rejected legislation proposed by Representative Richard H. Baker, a Louisiana Republican, to create a nonprofit group to buy out flooded homes, the plan favored by Ms. Blanco.	cause_general
Louisiana officials had also complained that Congress had shortchanged the state in a $29 billion relief package in December that gave $5.2 billion in housing reconstruction money to Mississippi, which suffered far less damage than Louisiana but which has a Republican governor and two Republican senators.	distant_evaluation
Last week, Ms. Blanco threatened to try to block a federal sale of oil and gas leases off the Gulf Coast, saying it was ''time to play hardball.''	cause_general
There are no longer corpses in plain sight, as there were for days after Hurricane Katrina hit.	cause_general
Based on reports from family members, officials have compiled a list of 225 addresses in the Ninth Ward whose residents are still missing.	cause_general
But the search has become snarled in yet another tangle over agency jurisdiction and cost.	cause_general
The New Orleans Fire Department's urban search and rescue team began combing the Ninth Ward in early October, but stopped two months later when money for overtime ran out, Steven P. Glynn, the chief of special operations for the department, said.	cause_specific
''The superintendent had to decide whether to continue that operation or provide adequate fire protection,'' he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The process of ''clearing'' a house from the list is not simple, Chief Glynn said.	distant_evaluation
Even if the house is still standing, furniture must be removed and as much as two feet of mud shoveled out before searchers can be certain no body is there.	distant_expectations_consequences
For those houses that have collapsed, the current plan is to have a search-and-rescue team work alongside the Army Corps of Engineers, which is charged with debris clearance and cleanup.	distant_evaluation
Chief Glynn said that he had explained the situation to at least half a dozen officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, but that he had yet to get a promise of money for more searches, which would cost about $400,000 for three months.	cause_general
Nicol Andrews, a spokeswoman for FEMA, said the Fire Department had not filled out a ''formal project worksheet'' requesting money.	distant_evaluation
But, Ms. Andrews said, ''by all accounts, this is something FEMA absolutely would pay for.''	distant_evaluation
But nearly six months after the storm, officials believe there are still dozens of unrecovered bodies in New Orleans.	main
The wait is maddening, said Chief Glynn, a third-generation New Orleans firefighter.	distant_evaluation
''It's really not the dead, because you can't do much for those people,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''It's the families, who are living with this.''	distant_evaluation
Some of those families have given DNA samples to the state, called the police and tried to search themselves.	cause_general
Lamont Marrero, 26, believes his mother, who was partly paralyzed, is still in her Ninth Ward home, but when he tried to enter, he found the iron security doors rusted shut.	distant_anecdotal
''We don't have any answers at all,'' Mr. Marrero said.	distant_anecdotal
''We don't know anything.	distant_anecdotal
That's the only thing left to do, is search the house.''	distant_anecdotal
They even have a pretty good idea where they are.	distant_expectations_consequences
But no one is looking for them.	main
Instead, they have been left in muck-filled houses or piles of debris for family members to stumble upon.	distant_expectations_consequences
Last Saturday, for example, Alicia and Herman Robertson found their nephew, Kendrick Smith, in the bedroom where he had lain face down since the storm.	distant_anecdotal
Family members, scattered to Houston, San Antonio and Ville Platte, La., said they had repeatedly asked the authorities to go by the house, at 2305 Flood Street, to look for Mr. Smith, 31.	cause_general
''The city never done nothing,'' Mr. Robertson said.	distant_anecdotal
''It was horrible to see one's loved one laid out like that.''	distant_anecdotal
Louisiana on Friday picked one of the nation's most prominent education reformers to run the troubled school district of New Orleans, as schools here continue to grapple with physical and administrative damage from Hurricane Katrina.	main
We not only have the problem of deep poverty; we have the problem of children who have been traumatized.''	distant_evaluation
In his remarks, he made it clear that the challenge posed by the New Orleans district was irresistible to a seasoned school professional.	distant_evaluation
''Why this job at this time?''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Vallas said.	distant_evaluation
''You've got an opportunity to create a new school system.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Asked what his biggest immediate challenge would be, Mr. Vallas said: ''Facilities.	distant_evaluation
Fixing schools.	distant_evaluation
From what I've heard, it's facilities, facilities, facilities.	distant_evaluation
Clearly the hurricane has done damage, but there has been neglect'' even before the storm.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Vallas comes to a school district that has followed a tortuous path because of the hurricane and a storm of academic, financial and administrative problems it had before that: a revolving door of superintendents, millions in misspent federal money and test scores that were the lowest in the state.	cause_specific
The new superintendent, Paul G. Vallas, who is credited with changes in school systems in Chicago and, most recently, in Philadelphia, was chosen to take on what is seen as one of the more singular challenges in American education: creating a working school district where many of the buildings are ruined, many of the teachers are missing and thousands of students might return suddenly.	cause_specific
Because of those difficulties, the state took over the district after the hurricane in 2005.	distant_historical
The district now consists of only 22 schools out of the original 128, with loose jurisdiction over an additional 17 charter schools.	cause_general
Another 17 schools are run or chartered by the Orleans Parish School Board, which once ran the entire district.	cause_general
The rest are closed.	cause_general
Mr. Vallas was chief executive for the school district in Philadelphia and earned generally high marks for his academic achievements, though a budget shortfall of $73 million cast a cloud over his tenure.	cause_general
He more than doubled fifth-grade math proficiency after arriving there in 2002, though gains in reading and in high school measures were smaller.	cause_general
In Chicago, where he was in charge of the schools from 1995 to 2001, similar gains were made.	distant_historical
The success or failure of the school district in New Orleans is widely seen as an important symbol of the city's recovery.	distant_evaluation
The challenge will be different from those Mr. Vallas has faced previously: more than half of fourth graders at nine schools in the district recently surveyed by Louisiana State University were below grade level in reading.	distant_expectations_consequences
At two schools, every fourth grader was below grade level in math.	cause_general
When they do, they will be among the neediest -- the poorest and lowest-achieving -- in the nation.	distant_evaluation
In one fourth-grade class, only 22 percent read at grade level.	cause_general
These difficulties were in addition to widely reported shortcomings the schools faced as they moved unsteadily through their first months last fall: lack of teachers, lack of textbooks, missing supplies and fighting.	cause_general
Robin Jarvis, the Baton Rouge official Governor Blanco chose to run the district, often seemed overwhelmed.	cause_general
Ms. Jarvis announced her resignation a few days ago.	cause_general
The Times-Picayune of New Orleans reported this week that the district had spent barely a tenth of the $241 million allocated by the federal government to rebuild schools, and as a result was facing a shortage of classroom space to handle the influx of students expected later in the year.	cause_general
To accommodate up to 10,000 new students by the fall, said the state education superintendent, Paul G. Pastorek, the district needs to hire about 600 teachers, rebuild 10 schools and get prefabricated classrooms into shape.	distant_expectations_consequences
The challenge is sizable, he said: ''It is hard to get teachers to come to a hurricane-ravaged city.''	distant_evaluation
As a superintendent in Philadelphia and Chicago, Mr. Vallas raised test scores with the help of after-school programs, new schools and revised curricula.	cause_general
He is generally regarded by schools experts as one of the more energetic practitioners in the field.	cause_general
But speaking Friday in a shuttered school in the Lower Ninth Ward, he seemed to recognize the special difficulty of this task.	distant_evaluation
''I've got to start delivering right away,'' Mr. Vallas told reporters and state officials, including Gov.	distant_expectations_consequences
Kathleen Babineaux Blanco.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We've got to get qualified people in the classrooms.	distant_expectations_consequences
The almost yearly cycle of flooding along the Passaic River and in the Delaware Valley has prompted a coalition of Republicans and Democrats in the State Assembly to push for a $1.7 billion bond referendum on the November ballot that would allow the state to buy homes that could be in the path of future floods.	main
John Moyle, the chief of the bureau for dam safety and flood control, said that many homes in danger of serious flood damage were built before the creation of regulations that specified the flood plain.	distant_evaluation
Mr. McKeon said he hoped the Assembly would vote on the bill within a month; it would then go to the Senate.	distant_expectations_consequences
If it passes there, it will be on the statewide ballot in November.	distant_expectations_consequences
''If even a fifth of the properties in this flood plain were to sell, the state could reclaim that property and make it much more as a natural barrier to land that was developed, as it should be,'' Mr. McKeon said.	distant_expectations_consequences
THE WEEK	error
The bond issue, which would allocate up to $175 million a year for the next 10 years, would draw on a fraction of the state sales tax.	distant_expectations_consequences
The money would also help preserve open space, farmlands and historic trusts.	distant_expectations_consequences
The measure was announced on Wednesday in Fairfield, an Essex County community that flooded last month.	main
Assemblyman John F. McKeon, a Democrat from Essex County who is one of the primary sponsors of the bill, said the bond issue would add money to the depleted Garden State Preservation Trust Fund.	distant_expectations_consequences
It has been used in part to buy and demolish 127 homes in floodways since its inception in 1995.	cause_general
''This will act as reclamation for tideland and river basin properties that should never have been built to begin with,'' Assemblyman McKeon said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The voluntary program, Blue Acres, administered by the Department of Environmental Protection, sends three state-certified appraisers to each property to determine its value.	cause_general
The state then makes an offer for the property.	cause_general
Ray Baldwin has had it.	distant_evaluation
Others said the storm provided an incentive to go ahead with a project to raise several houses.	distant_evaluation
In low-lying Danbury, Mayor Mark D. Boughton said drainage projects over the years had held the water better than in the past, but an area near Lake Kenosia flooded as badly this time as it did in 1999, when remnants of Hurricane Floyd produced the city's worst flooding in decades.	distant_evaluation
The mayor said he sent a letter last month to the Army Corps of Engineers asking for action.	cause_general
He was not the only one.	cause_general
The regional planning office of the corps in Concord, Mass., reported a number of calls from communities and individuals in Connecticut looking for assistance.	cause_general
The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection also fielded similar calls, and Denise Ruzicka, the department's director of inland water resources, said the agency had programs designed to help communities navigate the tangle of federal and state programs that offer financial services and technical help for flood mitigation.	cause_general
''We're a touch point, and you can bet we'll be doing a lot more of that this year,'' she said.	distant_expectations_consequences
But public works directors say flood projects can take years to wind through the various bureaucracies, a point not lost on the town of Woodbury, where permits and money for restoring the bank along a section of the Pomperaug River had languished for more than seven years.	distant_expectations_consequences
After some 40 feet of bank collapsed in last month's storm, threatening at least one home, approvals arrived within days.	cause_general
Work began a week later.	cause_general
The first selectman of Trumbull, he has seen the Pequonnock River flood dozens of homes and downtown three times in the last year -- most recently in the April 15 northeaster.	cause_general
One reason communities now see the need to revisit their flood plans is that population growth and intense development have changed how the landscape handles water.	cause_specific
A recent analysis by the University of Connecticut's Center for Land Use Education and Research showed that from 1985 to 2002, the percentage of the state's surface that is impervious increased by 22 percent, much of it in coastal areas.	cause_specific
That means more runoff and more flooding -- something Westport is all too familiar with.	distant_evaluation
The town completed millions of dollars in flood mitigation work in the last 10 years, after a 1992 storm inundated it and a number of coastal communities.	cause_general
But there was still substantial flooding last month around beaches, the Saugatuck River and the many brooks and streams that flow through town.	cause_general
Westport officials attribute much of the flooding to a development spurt in the years after the town's most recent study of flood areas and drainage, done in the 1970s.	distant_evaluation
Within days of the recent floods, town officials requested that the Flood and Erosion Control Board authorize a new study to determine how to redirect priorities.	main
''It's close to 30 years,'' said the town's public works director, Stephen J. Edwards.	distant_evaluation
''Some development patterns have challenged our projects.''	distant_evaluation
Equally important, Mr. Edwards said, is the town's obligation to re-educate residents about how they can provide their own flood protection and their need to be responsible for private property and private roadways.	distant_evaluation
''Enough's enough -- we've got to give these people some relief,'' Mr. Baldwin said last week.	distant_evaluation
''There's definitely a renewed awareness of our vulnerability, of our susceptibility to these types of events,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''Nothing makes it easier to sell a project than a catastrophe.''	distant_evaluation
Which is what Ray Baldwin in Trumbull is counting on.	distant_evaluation
Earlier efforts to rebuild the dam stalled when residents objected to the large body of water it would have created.	distant_historical
His new plan calls for a retention dam that would regulate water flow rather than stop it.	distant_expectations_consequences
Henry R. DiJulio Jr., who lives on a tributary of the Pequonnock, said the degree of flooding Trumbull experienced last month hadn't happened in 35 years.	distant_evaluation
Recently, he gave Mr. Baldwin a tour of his basement and showed him the damage from three feet of water.	cause_general
''Ray, you've got to do something,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''I'm working on it,'' Mr. Baldwin said.	distant_evaluation
THE WEEK	error
''We have to have some plan.	distant_evaluation
You just can't sit around on your hands waiting for somebody else to act.''	distant_evaluation
So even before the floodwaters receded, Mr. Baldwin dusted off and began revising an old proposal to build a retention dam across the Pequonnock where one existed in the first half of the 20th century.	main
Other public officials around the state are showing similar determination, with a number of communities hit hard by the storm resurrecting old projects with renewed vigor.	main
And in places where flood mitigation work was done, officials are using the storm as a test to determine whether they need to reassess.	main
In East Haven, notorious for its coastal and river flooding, officials said that recent projects had left roads more passable than in past storms, though residents of one beach area complained that their homes were as flooded as ever.	distant_evaluation
For months, Gov.	distant_evaluation
It was not until Sunday night that significant numbers of military vehicles started to arrive, many streaming in a long caravan from Wichita about 100 miles away.	main
Ms. Sebelius's comments about the slow response prompted a debate with the White House on Tuesday, which initially said the fault rested with her.	distant_evaluation
Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, said the governor should have followed procedure by finding gaps after the storm hit and asking the federal government to fill them -- but did not.	distant_evaluation
''If you don't request it, you're not going to get it,'' Mr.	distant_evaluation
Snow told reporters on Tuesday morning.	distant_evaluation
The debate was reminiscent of the Bush administration's skirmishes with Gov.	distant_evaluation
Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana, also a Democrat, after Hurricane Katrina.	distant_evaluation
But after an angry flurry of words, both sides seemed to back down a bit later Tuesday.	cause_general
Ms. Sibelius said she now had enough equipment and personnel to deal with the problems in Greensburg, and the White House acknowledged that the governor had requested several items that the federal government supplied, including a mobile command center, a mobile office building, an urban search and rescue team, and coordination of extra Black Hawk helicopters.	distant_evaluation
Nonetheless, the governor and officials in other states again expressed concern that the problem could occur again as the stretched National Guard system struggled to respond to disasters at home while also fighting overseas.	distant_evaluation
Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas and other governors have warned that their state National Guards are ill-prepared for the next local disaster, be it a tornado a flash flood or a terrorist's threat, because of large deployments of their soldiers and equipment in Iraq and Afghanistan.	distant_evaluation
As State Senator Donald Betts Jr., Democrat of Wichita, put it: ''We should have had National Guard troops there right after the tornado hit, securing the place, pulling up debris, to make sure that if there was still life, people could have been saved.	distant_evaluation
The response time was too slow, and it's becoming a trend.	distant_evaluation
We saw this after Katrina, and it's like history repeating itself.''	distant_evaluation
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which came under strong criticism after Hurricane Katrina, seemed to respond more quickly in Kansas.	cause_general
Several of the agency's mobile disaster recovery centers are in Greensburg assisting residents, and the agency said it had moved in 15,000 gallons of water and 21,000 ready-to-eat meals, enough to feed 10,000 people.	main
State officials said the problem with the National Guard's response had more to do with equipment than personnel.	distant_evaluation
In Kansas, the National Guard is operating with 40 percent to 50 percent of its vehicles and heavy machinery, local Guard officials said.	cause_specific
Ordinarily, the Guard would have about 660 Humvees and more than 30 large trucks to traverse difficult terrain and transport heavy equipment.	cause_general
When the tornado struck, the Guard had about 350 Humvees and 15 large trucks, said Maj. Gen. Tod Bunting, the state's adjutant general.	cause_specific
The Guard would also usually have 170 medium-scale tactical vehicles used to transport people and supplies -- but now it has fewer than 30, he said.	cause_specific
Then, last Friday night, a deadly tornado all but cleared the small town of Greensburg off the Kansas map.	cause_specific
On the other hand, General Bunting said, it had more cargo trucks than it needed.	cause_general
The issue is not confined to Kansas.	cause_general
In Ohio, the National Guard is short of night vision goggles and M-4 rifles, said a Guard spokesman, Dr. Mark Wayda.	cause_general
''If we had a tornado hit a small town, we would be fine,'' Dr. Wayda said.	distant_evaluation
''If we had a much larger event, that would become a problem.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The California National Guard is similarly concerned about a catastrophic event.	distant_evaluation
''Our issue is that we are shortchanged when it comes to equipment,'' said Col. Jon Siepmann, a spokesman for the Guard in California.	distant_evaluation
''We have gone from a strategic reserve to a globally deployable force, and yet our equipment resources have been largely the same levels since before the war.''	distant_evaluation
In Arkansas, Gov.	distant_evaluation
Mike Beebe a Democrat, echoed the concerns of Ms. Sebelius.	distant_evaluation
With 80 square blocks of the small farming town destroyed, Ms. Sebelius said her fears had come true: The emergency response was too slow, she said, and there was only one reason.	distant_evaluation
''We have the same problem,'' Mr. Beebe said.	distant_evaluation
''We have had a significant decrease in equipment traditionally afforded our National Guard, and it's occasioned by the fact that it's been sent to the Middle East and Iraq.''	distant_evaluation
He added: ''Our first and foremost consideration is to guarantee that our soldiers have the resources, including equipment, to do the job and protect themselves.	distant_expectations_consequences
Having said that, my preference would be for the federal government to provide that equipment and not strip the state's resources, which could adversely impact the state's mission in times of crisis, which is what happened in Kansas.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Last year, all 50 governors signed a letter to President Bush asking for the immediate re-equipping of Guard units sent overseas.	distant_historical
But officials in several states, including Kentucky, Minnesota and Texas, said Tuesday that they were not facing equipment shortages.	distant_evaluation
National Guard units overseas are often assigned engineering missions, and the skills and equipment -- bulldozers and trucks, for example -- are also what might be required to deal with a natural disaster at home.	cause_general
White House officials said that the Kansas National Guard had at its disposal in the Midwest and the Plains states, everything it needed.	distant_evaluation
By Mr.	cause_general
Snow's count, that included 83,000 National Guard soldiers; 99 bulldozers; 61 loaders; 246 dump trucks and 59 graders.	cause_general
''As you travel around Greensburg, you'll see that city and county trucks have been destroyed,'' Ms. Sebelius, a Democrat, said Monday.	cause_general
''There's a lot of stuff available,'' Mr.	distant_evaluation
Snow said.	distant_evaluation
''So, again, I think this is one where the equipment was available and everybody was moving as rapidly as possible.''	distant_evaluation
In Congressional testimony, senior National Guard officials have said that since Sept. 11 units under their command had equipment shortages as forces deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.	cause_general
Responding to concerns that the National Guard would not have sufficient personnel or equipment to respond to natural disasters, Guard leaders and state officials developed plans to ensure that if a state is in short supply of people or gear when a hurricane or tornado strikes, it can borrow from other states.	cause_general
But borrowing does not solve every problem, state officials said, and coordination can take time.	distant_evaluation
The destruction from Hurricane Katrina ultimately required the help of 50,000 troops -- and they came from all 50 states.	distant_historical
Training is another issue.	distant_evaluation
At a Washington news conference in February, Ms. Sebelius said, ''The Guard cannot train on equipment they do not have.''	distant_historical
She added later: ''And in a state like Kansas, where tornados, floods, blizzards and wildfires can seemingly happen all at once, we need our Guardsmen to be as prepared as possible.''	distant_historical
''The National Guard is one of our first responders.	cause_general
Two recent reports have raised questions about Guard preparedness.	cause_general
An independent military assessment council, the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, released a report in March that stated: ''In particular, the equipment readiness of the Army National Guard is unacceptable and has reduced the capability of the United States to respond to current and additional major contingencies, foreign and domestic.''	cause_general
Another report, released in January by the Government Accountability Office, concluded that the ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have ''significantly decreased'' the amount of equipment available for National Guard units not deployed overseas, while the same units face an increasing number of threats at home.	distant_historical
Late Tuesday, in a statement, Ms. Sebelius repeated her message:	distant_evaluation
''I have said for nearly two years, and will continue to say, that we have a looming crisis on our hands when it comes to National Guard equipment in Iraq and our needs here at home.''	distant_evaluation
They don't have the equipment they need to come in, and it just makes it that much slower.''	distant_evaluation
For nearly two days after the storm, there was an unmistakable emptiness in Greensburg, a lack of heavy machinery and an army of responders.	main
By Sunday afternoon, more than a day and a half after the tornado, only about half of the Guard troops who would ultimately respond were in place.	main
With memories of his administration's flat-footed response to Hurricane Katrina still lingering, President Bush visited a tornado-wrecked patch of Kansas on Wednesday to pledge administration vigilance in recovery efforts.	main
Mr. Paulison said.	distant_evaluation
''The answer is no.	distant_evaluation
The response in this particular case was absolutely phenomenal.''	distant_evaluation
And officials pointed to positive reviews across the state, including one from Earl Liggett, Kiowa County commissioner, who, referring to the hurricane response, said in an interview: ''I think FEMA was left with some egg on its face there, and they're going to make sure it doesn't happen here, and it hasn't.	distant_evaluation
It's been an unbelievable response.''	distant_evaluation
But FEMA's response was never at issue in the dispute with Kansas officials.	distant_evaluation
Ms. Sebelius had criticized the shortages of equipment for the local National Guard, which she linked to its heavy deployment in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
She did not repeat that criticism on Wednesday.	cause_general
She said the response had been ''prompt and good,'' and she added, ''We have a lot of assets here now.''	distant_evaluation
A bit later, one of Ms. Sebelius's aides said the governor's concern was not about the initial response, but the rebuilding ahead.	distant_anecdotal
The visit seemed to have a dual purpose: to deliver an in-person pledge of support for the town of Greensburg, and to dispel any comparisons to the hurricane response, one day after his administration sparred with Gov.	distant_evaluation
''It's the ongoing recovery effort that may be hampered,'' the aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he did not want to upstage the governor.	distant_anecdotal
''After Air Force One leaves, we've still got work to do.''	distant_anecdotal
Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, said that if state officials determined they were ill-equipped, ''they'll get what they need, period.''	distant_expectations_consequences
For his part, Mr. Bush stuck to tending to those struggling to recover, according to a pool report, surveying the damage first from above, aboard Marine One, his helicopter, and then on the ground.	distant_evaluation
Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, a Republican presidential contender, rode the helicopter with Mr. Bush, and when asked about Mr. Bush's reaction, said, ''Pretty devastating.''	distant_evaluation
Later, standing amid the wreckage on Bay Street, Mr. Bush said: ''My mission is to -- today, though, is to lift people's spirits as best as I possibly can and to hopefully touch somebody's soul by representing our country, and to let people know that while there was a dark day in the past, there's brighter days ahead.''	distant_evaluation
Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas over disaster readiness.	distant_evaluation
The governor was at his side as he toured the wreckage.	cause_general
''Our role as government officials is to work with the states and local folks to get whatever help is appropriate here,'' Mr. Bush said.	distant_evaluation
Speaking to reporters separately, Ms. Sebelius, a Democrat, said, ''There will be money -- federal, state, local,'' adding, ''We have an opportunity to rebuild a real American town.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Behind the scenes, tension remained.	distant_evaluation
On the way to Kansas aboard Air Force One, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, R. David Paulison, was sent to the press cabin to refute the notion that the response in Kansas was anything less than swift and thorough.	cause_general
''I've asked probably at least 20 times, Is there anything that you need you don't have?''	distant_evaluation
The Road Home, the Louisiana grant program for homeowners who lost their houses to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, is expected to cost far more than the $7.5 billion provided by the federal government, in part because many more families have applied than officials had anticipated.	cause_specific
State officials say that many more houses turned out to have had severe damage than federal data indicated back when the program was created.	cause_specific
They have also been surprised by a recent surge in applications, which are running at several hundred a day, almost two years after the storms, said Gentry Brann, director of communications for the program.	distant_evaluation
The state also expected private insurance companies to cover a larger percentage of the damage, said Walter J. Leger Jr., a lawyer and member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, which created the Road Home program.	distant_evaluation
''Anecdotally, the companies aren't paying,'' Mr. Leger said.	distant_evaluation
''National Flood Insurance paid out, but private insurers didn't.''	cause_specific
Insurance benefits are generally subtracted from grants awarded by the program.	cause_general
But Mr. Leger and other state officials concede that many homeowners may have preferred to try to get larger grants from the Road Home, rather than fight with their insurers.	distant_evaluation
The Bush administration contends that the state itself created the shortfall by paying for home damage caused by wind, rather than limiting the program to flood damage.	cause_specific
Insurance policies are more likely to cover wind damage than flood damage.	cause_general
The decision to pay for wind damage added about 43,000 houses to the likely total covered by the program, at a cost of about $2.6 billion, according to data from the office of Donald E. Powell, President Bush's coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding.	cause_specific
As a result, Louisiana officials on Tuesday night set a July 31 deadline for applicants, who can receive up to $150,000 to repair or rebuild their houses.	main
Even so, Mr. Powell ''is not opposed to additional funding -- if the state can make a clear case for more funds,'' his spokeswoman, Susan Aspey, wrote in an e-mail message.	distant_evaluation
''He wants to get this resolved as quickly as possible for the people of Louisiana, and he's indicated his willingness to sit down with the governor and her staff to work towards that end.''	distant_evaluation
State officials, from the governor on down, say the program has always covered wind damage, and that they do not understand why Mr. Powell is raising the issue so late in the game.	distant_evaluation
The state had a similar run-in with the Department of Housing and Urban Development over the way it paid out the grant money, and ended up changing the program in April.	cause_general
Louisiana is also fighting the Federal Emergency Management Agency for more than $1 billion it was counting on for the Road Home program.	cause_general
FEMA says it cannot release the money -- intended for hazard-mitigation efforts like elevating houses -- because the Road Home discriminates against younger people by exempting people 65 and older from a requirement that grant recipients live in their rebuilt houses for three years.	cause_general
Further complicating the financial picture is the fact that the state treasury is running a budget surplus of about $3 billion, which some in Washington have argued should be used to bail out the Road Home.	cause_general
A United States Senate subcommittee that held a hearing on the program last week is likely to recommend ways to fix it in a report to be released in June, said Stephanie Allen, a spokeswoman for Senator Mary L. Landrieu, the Louisiana Democrat who is chairwoman of the subcommittee.	distant_expectations_consequences
''She doesn't think the federal government should be responsible for the entire bailout,'' Ms. Allen said.	distant_evaluation
''It should be a combined effort of the federal government and the state.''	distant_evaluation
With the cutoff date, the state hopes to be able to figure out how much more money it needs to pay for the program; the shortfall is projected to be $2.9 billion.	distant_expectations_consequences
The financial woes of the Road Home have set off a frenzy of finger-pointing between federal and state officials, who blame one another for the projected shortfall.	cause_general
But it has stirred something close to despair among some Louisiana residents, who were already bemoaning the sluggish way the program has given out the money it does have; only 22,000 families statewide, out of 140,000 applicants, have received grants so far, for a total of $1.3 billion.	cause_general
The new problem has reinforced the fears of many in New Orleans that they are being abandoned by the federal government, even as it acknowledges that its levee system failed during Hurricane Katrina.	distant_evaluation
''There's no way they can ever make everybody whole, but they need to fix the thing they broke,'' said Frank A. Silvestri, a New Orleans lawyer and co-founder of the Citizens' Road Home Action Team, which has been critical of the program.	distant_evaluation
Evidence that the program is likely to run out of money has been building for several weeks as the state has finally begun making a significant number of grants since the inception of the Road Home nine months ago.	cause_general
The grants have averaged about $76,000, which is more than the roughly $60,000 the state predicted last August.	cause_specific
Torrential rains in southern China have unleashed surging floodwaters that have swept through small cities and farming villages, claiming at least 66 lives, forcing nearly 600,000 people to be relocated and destroying millions of dollars in property, the state news media reported Sunday.	main
Major cities along the southern coast, including the manufacturing export centers in Guangdong Province, were not reporting any flooding problems.	cause_general
But water was chest high in other parts of the province, including Zi Jin County, where some towns were experiencing the worst flooding in 50 years.	main
In one town, state news media showed a group of men carrying a pregnant woman atop a makeshift barge through waist-deep water.	main_consequence
Earlier this year, Chinese experts warned that southern China could experience serious flooding this summer, particularly along the middle and lower sections of the Yangtze River.	distant_evaluation
In spring, there was major drought on the upper reaches of the river, and the experts warned that flooding could follow.	distant_evaluation
China Central Television estimated property damages at 1.5 billion yuan, or about $198 million, for the region.	main_consequence
Rescue efforts were under way in the southern provinces of Hunan, Guizhou, Guangdong and Guangxi, as the floodwaters swept through mountainous regions prone to landslides.	main_consequence
Nearly nine million people were directly affected by the flooding, and factories and other enterprises have been closed in some areas, according to Xinhua, China's official news agency.	main_consequence
Heavy rains began last Wednesday in southern China and deluged the region into the weekend.	cause_specific
By Sunday, the rains had subsided in Guangxi Province, but more flooding was possible as water levels in local rivers were expected to keep rising for several days.	distant_expectations_consequences
Guangxi had reported eight deaths as well as extensive property damage, including the destruction of more than 3,700 homes and thousands of acres of cropland.	main_consequence
Flooding is an annual early summer event in southern China and a reminder of the country's contradictory weather patterns.	distant_evaluation
Even as the south is awash in floodwaters, other regions of China are gripped by record drought.	cause_general
In the southwestern corner of Sichuan Province, drought is so severe that trucks are delivering emergency water supplies.	cause_general
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - The potential reopening of a probe into the murder 12 years ago of a Mongolian model could spell more trouble for former Malaysian premier Najib Razak, as the new government pressed ahead with investigations into alleged corruption.	distant_expectations_consequences
Speaking from an immigration detention centre, where he has been held since 2015 for overstaying his visa, Sirul Azhar Umar told news portal Malaysiakini that he would help any move by the government to resurrect the case so long as he walked free.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Hence, I am willing to assist the new government to tell what actually transpired provided that the government grants me full pardon,” he was quoted as saying.	distant_expectations_consequences
Najib, who was deputy prime minister and defence minister at the time of the murder, has denied knowing Altantuya or playing any role in her death, but the mystery has haunted his political career.	cause_general
Calls by Reuters to Najib’s spokesman for comment on the latest developments went unanswered.	cause_general
His relative and one-time close associate, Abdul Razak Baginda, a defence consultant and political analyst who was said to have been the dead woman’s lover, had been charged with abetting the murder but was acquitted in 2008.	distant_historical
Mongolian President Battulga Khaltmaa’s call for justice was made in a congratulatory message to the 92-year-old Mahathir.	main
“As president of Mongolia, I pay special attention to the aggravated crime, that on October 18, 2006, a citizen of Mongolia and mother of two children, Shaariibuu Altantuya, was murdered in Malaysia,” he said in the letter to Mahathir that was also posted on his office’s website.	main
ANWAR ADVOCATES NEW CHARGES	distant_evaluation
Mahathir, asked on Monday whether he would consider commuting Sirul’s death sentence, said: “We cannot do everything at the same time at one go.” (Full Story)	distant_evaluation
Anwar Ibrahim, the rival who allied with Mahathir to topple Najib, said judges’ reluctance to call key witnesses in the murder case had “made a mockery of the law”.	distant_evaluation
A Malaysian police officer pushes a trolley during a raid of three apartments in a condominum owned by former Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak’s family, in Kuala Lumpur, May 17, 2018, in this photo taken by The Straits Times.	error
“The best way is to proffer a new charge and allow for a full hearing of the case,” Anwar told The Australian newspaper following his own release from prison earlier this week after a royal pardon quashed a politically-motivated sodomy conviction.	distant_evaluation
In his interview with Malaysiakini, Sirul thanked Anwar “for calling for a fresh trial”.	distant_evaluation
Civil society groups have alleged Altantuya’s murder was linked to her role as an interpreter and associate of Najib’s adviser, Abdul Razak Baginda, during Malaysia’s negotiations to buy two submarines from French shipbuilding giant DCNS in 2002.	distant_evaluation
Najib has denied allegations of links to Altantuya or graft during the deal.	distant_evaluation
LUXURY HANDBAGS, CASH	cause_general
On Saturday, Najib and his wife hit out at the media and police, after investigators seeking evidence of corruption were filmed seizing box loads of jewelry, luxury handbags and cash.	cause_general
Items seized by police from Najib’s residence and other locations linked to the couple included Birkin handbags from French designer firm Hermes, some costing more than a sports car.	cause_general
Dozens of the luxury bags were filled with cash and jewelry.	cause_general
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Najib’s lawyer, Harpal Singh Grewal, told reporters waiting outside the house that the former prime minister and his family were “really very unhappy” that police had confiscated clothes and shoes belonging to his children.	distant_evaluation
Picture taken May 17, 2018.	error
“No attempt was made to verify whether these dresses, shoes, baby clothes and all had anything to do with the investigations which are ongoing,” he said.	distant_evaluation
His wife, Rosmah Mansor, whose lavish taste has made a her a focus for anger, also issued a statement through her lawyers calling on law enforcement agencies to avoid “feeding social media trolls” and a “premature public trial”.	distant_evaluation
Ariffin Jamar/The Straits Times via REUTERS	error
On Saturday, Mongolia’s president requested Malaysia’s new leaders to find justice for the dead woman, Altantuya Shaariibu, while a fugitive policeman convicted of the crime said he would cooperate with any new probe if he was given a full pardon.	main
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has already barred Najib from leaving Malaysia after surprisingly defeating his one-time protege in an election on May 9.	cause_general
The new government is seeking answers to how billions of dollars disappeared from a state fund that Najib founded, and its anti-graft agency has asked the ex-premier, who has consistently denied any wrongdoing, to make a statement at its headquarters on Tuesday.	cause_general
In the case of the murdered Mongolian model, two policemen from Najib’s security detail were convicted, and have death sentences hanging over them, but the question of who ordered them to kill 28-year-old Altantuya has never been answered.	cause_general
While released on bail during an appeal one of those officers fled to Australia.	distant_historical
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovakia’s president said on Sunday he would seek talks with parties and urged changes in government or early elections to renew public trust following the murder of an investigative journalist that has shaken the nation.	main
Kiska said in a live televised address that Slovakia faced a “crisis of trust”.	distant_evaluation
“I will start talks with political leaders on how they imagine the future ... and how to renew the trust of people in their own state,” he said.	main
He then advocated “an extensive and essential” remake of the government or a snap election.	main
Fico said any government changes must be agreed by coalition partners.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The constitution sees no role for president in this process,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“Our goal is the investigation of this brutal act.	distant_evaluation
We won’t dance on the graves of two young people, unlike opposition, media and, now, the president.”	distant_evaluation
The leader of junior government member Slovak National Party, Andrej Danko, said afterward he was ready for dialogue.	distant_evaluation
Junior coalition Most-Hid (Bridge) party gave the interior minister until March 12 to resign or it may consider withdrawing its support for the government.	distant_expectations_consequences
If Fico resigns, the government also falls.	distant_expectations_consequences
Relatives and friends attend the funeral of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak, who was murdered along with his fiancee Martina Kusnirova, at the cemetery in the village of Stiavnik, Slovakia, March 3, 2018.	error
Kiska would then task the outgoing prime minister to rule until a new government is formed.	distant_expectations_consequences
Early elections can be triggered with the support of three fifths of lawmakers.	distant_expectations_consequences
The government can also ask for a confidence vote in parliament, where a simple majority among present lawmakers would suffice.	distant_expectations_consequences
Thirty lawmakers can also trigger a no-confidence motion, for which an absolute majority — at least 76 votes in the 150-seat parliament — are needed.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slovak police detained seven people on Thursday in its investigation, releasing partial names that matched subjects who Kuciak referred to in his final article.	cause_general
Those detained were released over the weekend.	cause_general
REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa	error
The murder of Jan Kuciak has rattled Prime Minister Robert Fico’s three-party government and led to public anger about corruption in Slovakia, which is a member of the European Union.	cause_specific
Fico was quick to reject any shake-up, saying it would undermine the result of elections in 2016.	distant_evaluation
President Andrej Kiska lacks formal powers to trigger the fall of the government but his comments could add to public pressure on it.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Friday, thousands of people marched in the capital Bratislava and other cities for Kuciak, 27, who had been looking into suspected mafia links among Italian businessmen in eastern Slovakia before he was found shot dead with his fiancee Martina Kusnirova last weekend.	cause_general
One of the men named in Kuciak’s last report had past links to people who subsequently worked for Fico’s office.	cause_general
The report was published posthumously and probed potential abuse of EU subsidies and other fraud..	cause_general
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovakia demanded on Thursday that Vietnam explain media reports that Vietnamese agents used a Slovak government plane to smuggle home an ex-oil executive they kidnapped from Berlin last year.	main
“The only possible explanation would be an abuse of Slovakia’s hospitality, but nothing suggests that was the case so far,” Pellegrini told reporters before leaving for a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.	distant_evaluation
Slovakia lent a government plane to a Vietnamese delegation last year to fly to Moscow from Bratislava after a meeting between then-interior minister Robert Kalinak and Vietnam’s minister of public security, To Lam.	distant_historical
Kalinak told Slovak news website www.aktuality.sk that the Vietnamese delegation was supposed to fly out of Vienna, just 45 km (28 miles) west of Bratislava, but requested the plane after its itinerary changed unexpectedly.	distant_historical
According to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, the car supposedly used for the abduction was parked in front of the Slovak government hotel where the Slovak-Vietnamese meeting was held three days after the abduction, according to GPS records.	distant_historical
Thanh, a former high flyer in Vietnam who was accused of mismanagement and causing losses at PetroVietnam Construction JSC, has been given two life sentences in Vietnam since he was brought home.	cause_general
A Vietnamese man has been brought to trial in Germany for allegedly helping in the kidnapping.	cause_general
The German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported last week that Vietnam may have used a Slovak plane to transport Trinh Xuan Thanh, who Germany said was kidnapped in a Berlin park last July.	cause_specific
Thanh, who had sought political asylum in Germany, was sentenced to life in prison in January for violating state regulations and embezzlement.	distant_historical
The Slovak Foreign Ministry said on Thursday it had summoned the Vietnamese ambassador to relay its questions and concern over the case.	main_consequence
“If these allegations are confirmed, we will see it as a serious incident with a negative impact on our bilateral relations,” the ministry said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We strongly refuse that Slovakia had anything to do with such act ... “	distant_evaluation
It said it may take further diplomatic steps if Vietnam does not provide a credible explanation.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Vietnamese government did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment outside office hours.	cause_general
On Wednesday, Slovakia’s Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini distanced the government from the report that Slovakia helped Vietnam with the alleged kidnapping and also said there was no evidence that Thanh was on the plane.	distant_evaluation
BEIRUT (Reuters) - France said on Wednesday that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who Lebanon’s president says is being held hostage by Saudi Arabia, will visit France with his family in coming days.	distant_expectations_consequences
The invitation is to visit for a few days and is not an offer of political exile, Macron said, speaking in Germany.	distant_evaluation
“We will not accept (Hariri) remaining a hostage whose reason for detention we do not know,” Lebanese President Michel Aoun said in a statement.	main
Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil, the head of Aoun’s political party, said the situation was “not normal” but that Beirut wanted “good relations” with Riyadh.	distant_evaluation
Aoun has said he will not accept Hariri’s resignation until he returns to Lebanon to formally tender it and explain his reasons, which Hariri has said he will do in the coming days.	distant_expectations_consequences
Saudi Arabia has long been considered Hariri’s main external supporter.	distant_evaluation
Aoun is a political ally of Lebanon’s Hezbollah, a powerful Shi’ite Muslim group with close ties to Iran.	cause_general
Lebanon’s coalition government was formed last year through a political deal that made Aoun president, Hariri prime minister, and included members of Hezbollah in the cabinet.	distant_historical
Saudi Arabia last week accused Lebanon of having declared war on it because of Hezbollah’s role in other Arab countries.	cause_general
It regards Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation.	cause_general
Riyadh’s main ally, the United States, has struck a different tone, continuing its support for Lebanon including military aid.	cause_general
Lebanese President Michel Aoun meets with Lebanese journalists and media executives at the presidential palace in Baabda, Lebanon, November 15, 2017.	error
The European Union has also repeatedly stated its support for Lebanon, which hosts 1.5 million Syrian refugees.	cause_general
In an interview on Sunday night with a television station he owns, Hariri warned of economic sanctions against Lebanon and of a threat to the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of Lebanese workers living in Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Nothing justifies Hariri’s lack of return for 12 days.	cause_specific
We therefore consider him detained,” Aoun said.	main
He added that Lebanon had confirmed that Hariri’s family were under detention in their house in Saudi Arabia and were searched whenever they entered or left it.	distant_evaluation
Speaking in Italy, Foreign Minister Bassil said: “We will continue all steps...for this problem to be solved in a brotherly way through good relations that we want to have with the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.”	distant_expectations_consequences
He added, however: “If Saudi Arabia has a problem with Iran or with Hezbollah, they have to solve it with Iran, not with Lebanon and not with all the Lebanese.”	distant_expectations_consequences
“PERFECTLY FINE”	distant_expectations_consequences
Hariri wrote on Twitter that he was “perfectly fine” and would return, “God willing, to dear Lebanon as I promised”.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Wednesday he said he would return in a couple of days but that his family was staying in Saudi Arabia, calling it “their country”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Dalati Nohra/Handout via REUTERS	error
Hariri holds Saudi nationality and his family fortune is based on the construction company - Saudi Oger - built by his father Rafik al-Hariri, who served twice as Lebanese prime minister and was assassinated in 2005.	cause_general
Okab Sakr, a member of parliament for Hariri’s Future Movement, told Reuters he had spoken on Wednesday to Hariri and that he told him neither he nor his family were being held.	distant_evaluation
On Tuesday, European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said after meeting Bassil in Paris that she expected Hariri and his family to return to Lebanon soon.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sources from across Lebanon’s political spectrum have said Hariri struck a more compromising tone in his Sunday interview than in his resignation statement, when he bitterly attacked Iran and Hezbollah.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
The sources said this represented a retreat by Riyadh attributable to Western pressure.	distant_evaluation
On Wednesday, Aoun said Riyadh had not responded to Arab countries who tried to secure Hariri’s return so he had asked the international community to help.	distant_evaluation
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian arrives in Riyadh late on Wednesday and is due to discuss Lebanon with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and meet Hariri on Thursday, a French diplomatic source said.	distant_expectations_consequences
France has close relations with Lebanon, which was under French control between the world wars, and with Hariri, who has a home in France and spent several years in the country.	cause_general
Hariri travelled to Riyadh on Nov. 3 before abruptly resigning in a televised statement a day later.	cause_specific
He has stayed in Riyadh and top Lebanese officials and senior politicians close to Hariri have told Reuters he was forced to quit.	distant_evaluation
Hariri and Saudi Arabia have both denied he is being held in Riyadh or was coerced to resign.	distant_evaluation
Hariri has said he will return to Lebanon in the next few days to formally submit his resignation.	distant_expectations_consequences
The crisis has thrust Lebanon onto the frontline of a Middle East contest for power pitting a Saudi-led bloc against Iran and its allies, including the Lebanese Shi’ite group Hezbollah.	distant_evaluation
French President Emmanuel Macron said in a statement that he had invited Hariri to France after speaking to him and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Britain’s government will continue granting contracts to Interserve Plc (IRV.L) as the debt-laden outsourcing company battles to avoid a Carillion-style collapse, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday.	main
Shares in Interserve lost more than half their value on Monday after the company announced a rescue plan that envisaged converting much of its debt into new shares, potentially handing control of the company to its creditors.	cause_general
The Reading-based outsourcer, which employs 75,000 worldwide and has thousands of British government contracts to clean hospitals and serve school meals, said on Sunday it would seek to cut its debt to 1.5 times core earnings in talks with lenders that it hopes to complete early next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Interserve also announced on Monday it had been awarded a 25 million pound ($32 million) contract from Cwm Taf University Health Board as part of a 36-million-pound redevelopment of Prince Charles Hospital in Merthyr in Wales.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Interserve offices are seen in Twyford, Britain January 17, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls/File Photo	error
Britain does not see Interserve as another Carillion (CLLN.L), the construction and outsourcing company that collapsed in a mass of debt and pension dues in January, the FT reported, citing government sources.	cause_specific
Government tenders expected to be released early next year include a contract to provide housing for asylum seekers and another running a back-to-work program for the unemployed, the newspaper said.	distant_expectations_consequences
A UK Cabinet Office spokesperson said a ban on one company bidding for government contracts would not be lawful.	cause_general
“Public sector procurement rules require that bids are evaluated based on specific requirements and selection criteria,” the spokesperson said in an emailed statement.	cause_general
“For any major contracts this includes a test to see whether the bidding company has the economic and financial standing to undertake the contract”.	cause_general
Interserve had no immediate comment when contacted by Reuters.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO - U.S.	error
“This is a pretty serious matter for those of us on the receiving line,” Klobuchar told the committee.	distant_evaluation
“I would like to know what was going on with elected officials,” she said.	distant_evaluation
“If they in fact were taking actions against critics, this could be a campaign finance issue...	distant_expectations_consequences
It could also have other legal ramifications.”	distant_expectations_consequences
If Facebook spent money trying to influence the outcome of an election, it would have been required to disclose that spending to the Federal Election Commission and failure to do so would be a violation of the law.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, recent Supreme Court rulings have given companies leeway, requiring that they directly call for someone to be elected, or lose their office, to trigger the campaign finance laws.	cause_general
The Times report said Facebook hired the Republican firm to discredit activist protesters and lobbied a Jewish civil rights group to cast some critics of the company as anti-Semitic.	cause_specific
Its issue with Klobuchar involved legislation known as the Honest Ads Act, which she has supported along with Democratic Senator Mark Warner and the late Arizona Republican Senator John McCain.	cause_specific
The bill would compel Facebook and other internet firms to disclose the sponsors of political ads on their websites.	distant_expectations_consequences
Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) speaks during a Senate Judiciary Committee meeting to vote on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be a U.S. Supreme Court associate justice on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 28, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Jim Bourg	error
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A Democratic U.S. senator said on Thursday she will ask Facebook Inc (FB.O) and the Justice Department about a media report that the company hired an outside firm to attack critics, warning that such action could raise campaign finance issues.	main
Senator Amy Klobuchar told the Senate Judiciary Committee she would send a letter seeking details about a New York Times article that named the Minnesota Democrat as a target of an aggressive Facebook lobbying campaign that relied partly on a Republican opposition research firm.	main
Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Klobuchar.	cause_general
But Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg told reporters that he ended the company’s relationship with the outside firm, Definers Public Affairs, after he became aware of it while reading the New York Times story.	cause_general
Definers did not respond to a request to comment.	cause_general
The New York Times said Facebook conducted an aggressive campaign to combat critics, shift public anger toward rival companies and fend off new regulations contained in proposed legislation that Klobuchar supports.	cause_specific
LIVERPOOL, England (Reuters) - Britain’s opposition Labour Party is wooing business bosses even as it unveils a raft of radical economic policies, determined to thaw a sometimes frosty response to its plans to give more power to the workers.	main
Hours earlier, Labour’s would-be finance minister John McDonnell set out plans to “shift the balance of power” to ordinary people with policies including nationalizing key industries, putting workers on boards and handing employees up to 10 percent of company shares.	cause_general
Labour has also said that in government it will raise corporation tax, increase income tax for the highly paid and introduce a financial transaction tax, hoping to break with policies it says were responsible for the 2008 financial crisis.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The concern that arises for so many businesses is that when they hear the tone and content of the speeches in the conference hall, there is a chilling effect,” Adam Marshall, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“It is a litany of things one after the other that really just sets an unhelpful tone,” said Marshall, whose organization represents 75,000 companies employing nearly six million people, calling on Labour to do more to allay business concerns about the impacts of some of their policy proposals.	distant_evaluation
ON THE BOARDROOM AGENDA	distant_evaluation
But after Labour’s plan to end austerity and borrow to invest in public services captured the imagination of voters at a snap election last year, reducing May to a minority government, business has no option but to engage.	distant_evaluation
Labour said the exhibition zone at conference, which features businesses including tech firm Google, transport manufacturer Bombardier and oil company BP, was the largest and most lucrative it has been since Corbyn became leader.	cause_general
Of 165 stands, 22 are new exhibitors.	cause_general
There is a also a small business zone with six exhibitors.	cause_general
“We are definitely seeing an increase in interest from clients preparing, contingency planning, for a Labour government, particularly in financial services,” said one attendee at the business drinks, who worked for a business advisory firm.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Britain's Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn speaks during a rally ahead of his party's annual conference, in Liverpool, Britain, September 22, 2018.	error
“It is on the boardroom agenda.”	distant_evaluation
May’s Conservatives have traditionally considered themselves the party of business, advocating free markets and lower taxes, but relations between government and business have been strained by worries over the impact leaving the EU will have on business.	cause_general
Over the summer, then foreign secretary Boris Johnson was quoted by a newspaper brusquely dismissing business leaders’ concerns about Brexit.	distant_evaluation
“They are clearly opening up a space for us and we have got to grab it with both hands and make the most of the opportunity,” Labour’s small business spokesman Bill Esterson told an event at the conference.	distant_evaluation
Esterson said that while there would be things Labour did which the business community disagreed with, he got a good response from businesses for many of its policies and the party was encouraging its local groups to appoint business officers to help get their message out.	distant_evaluation
“To get into government I would argue that we need the support of the business community,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“We have got representatives from businesses large and small from all sectors talking to us ... giving us the evidence that we need to build on last year’s brilliant manifesto so we have got the policies that will engage people in the private sector.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Hannah McKay/File Photo	error
“Engage with Labour, work with us,” was the message from Labour’s envoy for financial services to businessmen and women at a business drinks reception at the party’s annual conference.	main
With Brexit negotiations at an impasse and Prime Minister Theresa May’s future uncertain, Labour and business — at times uneasy bedfellows since veteran leftist Jeremy Corbyn was elected leader in 2015 — are taking more notice of each other.	cause_general
Alongside its conference in the northern city of Liverpool, Labour has run a business forum attended by more than 100 business people, including representatives from major investment banks, seeking to shape the party’s business pitch.	cause_general
“We take huge pride in the UK being a global financial center, there will always be a seat at the table for the finance sector with us,” Labour’s financial services spokesman Jonathan Reynolds told the business drinks event.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Remember the Labour Party now counts a membership in the hundreds of thousands,” he added.	distant_evaluation
“Discussions that are being had here at conference ... will have a relevance for the economy and for your businesses going forward.”	distant_expectations_consequences
(Reuters) - The bitter fight over the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh spilled over into a key U.S. Senate race in Indiana on Monday, as the Republican challenger, Mike Braun squared off against Joe Donnelly, the Democratic incumbent.	main
Braun’s campaign has pointed to Donnelly’s “no” vote as a lack of support for the Republican president’s agenda.	distant_evaluation
On Monday, Braun charged that Donnelly was unwilling to buck his party in opposing Kavanaugh.	distant_evaluation
“Democrats including Joe Donnelly will do or say anything when it comes to their political interests,” Braun said.	distant_evaluation
“It is a blood sport.”	distant_evaluation
Republicans believe the fight over Kavanaugh has engaged conservative voters who otherwise have not been paying attention to the elections and may make a difference in several close Senate races.	distant_expectations_consequences
L-R: Libertarian Lucy Brenton, Democratic U.S. Sen. Joe Donnelly and Republican former state Rep. Mike Braun, participate in a U.S. Senate Debate, in Westville, Indiana, U.S., October 8, 2018.	error
Darron Cummings/Pool via REUTERS	error
WORKING WITH TRUMP	distant_evaluation
Donnelly has emphasized his ability to work with Trump, and he did so again on Monday, saying he had supported the president’s agenda the majority of the time.	distant_evaluation
Last year, Donnelly voted to confirm Trump’s first Supreme Court nominee, Neil Gorsuch.	distant_historical
Braun, a businessman, hammered Donnelly over his opposition to President Donald Trump’s latest nomination to the top court, seeking momentum in a race that polls show to be tight a month before Nov. 6 elections that will determine control of Congress.	cause_general
He said his vote against Kavanaugh showed independent judgment.	distant_evaluation
Read more: Indiana Democrat touts support of Trump in bid to keep seat	error
“Mike was for Judge Kavanaugh on the first day.	distant_evaluation
If President Trump put up Bugs Bunny, Mike would have said he should go on the court,” Donnelly said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“My job is to protect the court and to put people on who are qualified.”	distant_evaluation
Braun, who served for three years in the Indiana legislature, repeatedly stressed his Trumpian “outsider” credentials.	distant_evaluation
He criticized Donnelly for failing to support tax overhaul legislation that passed Congress last year and for supporting the Iran nuclear deal crafted by the Obama administration, which Trump has abandoned.	distant_evaluation
Donnelly accused Braun of not supporting insurance coverage for pre-existing healthcare conditions in the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, an attack line that has been a staple of Democratic campaigns.	distant_evaluation
Braun pledged during the debate that he would never support a replacement for Obamacare “unless it covered pre-existing conditions.”	distant_expectations_consequences
A Democrat in a Republican-heavy state, Donnelly has shown staying power, with polls largely showing him keeping a slight edge over Braun and Libertarian candidate Lucy Benton, who also participated in Monday’s debate.	distant_evaluation
Democrats need to gain a net total of two seats to win control of the Senate, which will require defending seats in several states that voted for Trump in 2016, including Indiana.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (5 Images)	error
He supported steel and aluminum tariffs the administration placed on imports this year, saying they benefited Indiana industries.	cause_general
Donnelly has criticized other tariffs that have hurt the state’s farmers and contended they had gone too far in spurring retaliation by China.	cause_general
The Indiana Chamber of Commerce, which has long backed Republicans, declined in the summer to endorse anyone in the Senate race, showing the potency of the tariff issue.	distant_historical
Control of the Senate would allow them to block moves by Trump, including Supreme Court nominees.	distant_expectations_consequences
Reuters Interactive Can Democrats regain control of the House?	error
Donnelly, who is seeking a second Senate term, has been a top target of Republicans in a state Trump won by almost 20 percentage points two years ago.	distant_evaluation
“I voted against Judge Kavanaugh because of concerns about his impartiality and concerns about his judicial temperament,” Donnelly said early in the first debate between the candidates, held in Westville, Indiana, a small town in the northwest corner of the state.	distant_evaluation
Kavanaugh was accused by California university professor Christine Blasey Ford of sexual assaulting her when they were high school students in 1982.	cause_general
He mounted a passionate defense of his innocence in the Senate and was confirmed by 50-48 in a near-party-line vote on Saturday.	cause_general
RIGA (Reuters) - Latvia’s ruling coalition lost its majority and two newly formed parties took more than a quarter of the votes amid widespread disillusion with the Baltic country’s politicians, the result in Saturday’s parliamentary elections showed with 80 percent of the votes counted.	main
“Faith in the rule of law will return to the people!”	distant_expectations_consequences
The new parliament will be more fragmented and a broad coalition of ethnic Latvian parties is seen as the most likely outcome by political analysts.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, with seven parties winning seats, coalition talks could go on for weeks or months.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Forming a new government will be very difficult,” current Prime Minister Māris Kucinskis of the Union of Greens and Farmers said after the election.	distant_expectations_consequences
The ruling coalition consisting of his party, the National Alliance and the Unity party appear to have lost almost half of its votes.	distant_evaluation
“The messages that the voters have tried to send is that we’re going to have some new faces in politics,” Janis Ikstens, political scientist at Latvia University, told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“And perhaps they’re not happy with the neglect of social needs.”	distant_evaluation
Before the election, some Latvians feared a strong result for Harmony and KPV could lead to them forming a government and bringing the Latvia’s foreign policy closer to Putin’s Russia.	distant_expectations_consequences
But given the result, that looks unlikely, according to Ikstens.	distant_evaluation
Harmony recently rebranded itself as a Western-style Social Democratic party, saying it is committed to the European Union and NATO.	cause_general
A man casts his vote during a general election in Riga, Latvia October 6, 2018.	error
But it only last year ended its official cooperation agreement with Putin’s United Russia Party, raising concerns its transformation is only skin deep.	distant_evaluation
Latvia, a member of the European Union and NATO, shares a 276-kilometre (167 miles) border with Russia.	cause_general
NATO currently has more than 1,000 troops deployed in the Baltic country of 2 million and even the potential of a minor shift in allegiance in Latvia will worry both Brussels and Washington.	cause_general
REUTERS/Ints Kalnins	error
The country of 2 million, a quarter of whom are ethnic Russians, is a frontline state in Europe’s and NATO’s increasingly tense relationship with Vladimir Putin.	cause_general
The pro-Russia party Harmony remained the biggest with 20 percent, due to its support from Russian-speakers, but will find it difficult to get in government as parties that oppose it because of its Moscow ties won enough votes.	distant_evaluation
Latvia has long been plagued by corruption and money-laundering issues.	distant_evaluation
The country’s central bank governor is currently awaiting trial for accepting a bribe.	cause_general
In part because of those issues, two newcomers, populist party KPV LV and anti-corruption party the New Conservatives, both won around 14 percent of the vote each to became the second- and third-biggest parties.	cause_specific
“This political party doesn’t take instructions or orders, whims of its founders, supporters or various other people who stand behind it,” Janis Bordans, party leader for the New Conservatives, told supporters after the election.	distant_evaluation
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia’s center-right government united behind new Prime Minister Scott Morrison to fend off a de facto vote of no confidence on Monday but his coalition still appeared likely to be heavily punished by voters at an election due by May.	main
The poll of 1,653 voters showed Labor ahead by 56 to 44 on a two-party-preferred basis in which votes for minor parties are distributed under preference deals.	cause_specific
It was the 40th straight losing poll for the coalition and a sharp deterioration from the 51-49 result in the last days of Turnbull’s leadership.	cause_general
The government will soon face a by-election for Turnbull’s harbourside Sydney electorate and the Newspoll indicated the once-safe Liberal seat could be in jeopardy.	distant_expectations_consequences
A defeat would leave Morrison beholden to a group of independent lawmakers.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Liberals already had a stark warning in a New South Wales state by-election where official figures on Sunday showed a massive 29 percent swing against them.	distant_evaluation
NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian blamed the chaos in Canberra for turning people against the party.	distant_evaluation
Morrison has used his first few weeks in office to present a down-to-earth image with a message of a “fair go for those who have a go” but could struggle to keep the government unified.	distant_expectations_consequences
Australia’s upper house Senate, where the government also doesn’t have a majority, passed a bill on Monday that would ban the export of live sheep following a series of animal cruelty cases.	cause_general
Morrison, who relies on the support of rural voters, opposes the ban but several of his backbenchers have vowed to support the legislation.	cause_general
He also faces growing calls to address allegations of bullying within his party after allegations from three female backbenchers that they were unduly pressured by supporters of Peter Dutton, whose challenge brought on the leadership vote.	cause_general
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison speaks in the House of Representatives at Parliament House in Canberra, Australia, September 10, 2018.	error
AAP/Mick Tsikas/via REUTERS	error
Morrison’s Liberal Party, the senior partner in a Liberal-National coalition, fractured in August when a backbench revolt forced then prime minister Malcolm Turnbull from office in a party-room vote, ushering in Australia’s sixth leader in 10 years.	cause_specific
His first session of parliament as leader was hostile but Morrison’s government united to defeat a series of motions by the opposition Labor party to debate Turnbull’s ousting that would have amounted to a confidence vote.	cause_general
The coalition lost its a majority of only one seat in parliament with Turnbull’s resignation in August, leaving it precariously placed to push ahead with its agenda and hold off calls for an early election.	distant_evaluation
“Given the public mood and the circumstances behind Turnbull’s departure, there was the very real prospect that some backbenchers would have moved against the government in order to bring about an election,” said Haydon Manning, a Flinders University political science professor.	distant_expectations_consequences
The impact of the political infighting has been laid bare in recent days despite Monday’s fragile show of unity.	distant_evaluation
Australia’s prominent Newspoll in The Australian newspaper on Monday showed the coalition would lose up to 30 seats if an election was held now.	cause_specific
KAMPALA (Reuters) - Ugandan pop star turned opposition politician Robert Kyagulanyi pledged on Thursday to continue what he calls a fight for freedom for millions of oppressed fellow citizens, after returning to his country from the United States.	main
“I am resuming immediately ...	main
I am on the mission already, I am on the fight for freedom and liberty already,” he said, surrounded by throngs of people.	main
Leaning on a cane, he said his “desire for liberty” was as strong as “the desire of the millions and millions of people in Uganda to be free.” Ugandans, he said, were “slaves in our own country”.	main
His supporters had earlier in the day defied a heavy security presence and gathered at his residence to welcome him, but once he arrived by police escort, security forces did not attempt to stop crowds from gathering at his home.	cause_general
Many of his supporters wore red t-shirts and hats.	cause_general
The color has come to be associated with his “People Power” movement, and demonstrators at Ugandan embassies in London, Nairobi and elsewhere have donned the same color during protests.	cause_general
Police had on Wednesday banned rallies to welcome Kyagulanyi home and said they would escort him to his home.	distant_expectations_consequences
The legal basis for the escort was unclear.	cause_general
Ahead of Kyagulanyi’s arrival, security forces had deployed around the airport and the highway linking it to Kampala to prevent supporters from greeting him.	cause_general
Armored personnel carriers and police vehicles lined the route and journalists were prevented from traveling to the airport to cover the arrival.	cause_general
Ugandan musician turned politician, Robert Kyagulanyi addresses his supporters outside his home after arriving from the U.S. in Kampala, Uganda September 20, 2018.	error
Kyagulanyi is increasingly seen as posing a significant challenge to Museveni, who has ruled since 1986.	distant_evaluation
His message - that young Ugandans need a dynamic new head of state to tackle the myriad problems they face - has electrified citizens who say they are fed up with corruption, unemployment, and state repression of dissent.	distant_evaluation
The government denies allegations of corruption and of stifling opposition.	distant_evaluation
Museveni has won praise in the West for his support against militant Islam and his role as power-broker in the volatile Great Lakes Region.	cause_general
Uganda has also welcomed foreign investors such as France’s Total, China’s CNOOC and Britain’s Tullow as part of a plan to start pumping oil from 2021.	cause_general
Slideshow (9 Images)	error
But the government is facing growing criticism from its allies, particularly main donors the United States and the European Union, who have deplored the torture alleged by opposition politicians including Kyagulanyi.	cause_general
Kyagulanyi attracted a youth following through songs critical of Museveni and his status rose higher due to an incident in August in which his driver was shot dead and he was detained and charged with treason over what authorities said was the stoning of the president’s convoy.	cause_general
The politician, who has pleaded not guilty to the treason charges, said he was beaten with an iron bar in detention in northern Uganda.	cause_general
The government denies that he was mistreated.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Newton Nambwaya	error
The return of the 36-year-old musician, known by his stage name of Bobi Wine, has rattled the government headed by 74-year-old President Yoweri Museveni, who has been in power since 1986 and leads a nation where nearly 80 percent of the population is below the age of 30.	distant_evaluation
Though a political novice — he was elected in a parliamentary by-election last year — Kyagulanyi’s popularity has skyrocketed particularly among disillusioned youths who say they see few prospects under the rule of Museveni.	distant_evaluation
When Kyagulanyi arrived at Entebbe International Airport from the United States, police escorted him into a vehicle and whisked him to the capital Kampala where his whereabouts were for a time unknown, leading supporters for a while to fear he had been arrested.	cause_general
He had received medical treatment in the United States for injuries which he said were sustained during torture by security forces last month.	cause_general
The government has denied any mistreatment but says it is investigating.	distant_evaluation
But Kyagulanyi later appeared atop a car outside his home in Kampala to address hundreds of cheering supporters.	cause_general
BOGOTA (Reuters) - Colombian President Ivan Duque’s campaign promise to eschew traditional deal-making with the legislature may make it hard for him to pass business-friendly tax proposals, modifications to a peace deal with Marxist rebels and other measures that are unpopular with some centrist and leftist legislators.	main
Nearly 12 million voters backed anti-corruption measures in a referendum last month, and at least 10 current or retired lawmakers were investigated or tried in a scandal involving kickbacks by Brazilian construction company Odebrecht.	cause_general
But Duque’s promises to avoid backroom dealings could limit his ability to pass measures needed to salvage the country’s investment grade credit rating and keep his promise to tighten restrictions on former FARC rebels.	distant_expectations_consequences
His coalition has a slender Senate majority of 54 out of 106 seats.	cause_general
In the lower house his backers hold just 83 of 170 seats, which is less than half.	cause_general
“He has a weak majority and the challenge is big because Duque is trying to do politics without handing out jobs or contracts to lawmakers,” political analyst Marcela Prieto said.	distant_evaluation
“Changing that political culture will not be easy.	distant_expectations_consequences
It will cost him a lot to pass his legislative proposals.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Duque’s weak backing has analysts and ratings agencies worried that he will have trouble passing an expansion of the tax base and cuts to duties for companies.	distant_expectations_consequences
Colombia has an investment grade rating and a stable outlook from Fitch and S&P.	cause_general
“Political fragmentation or confrontation may complicate the task of passing those reforms,” Samar Maziad, vice-president of Moody’s said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Colombia's President Ivan Duque leaves the polling station after voting in a seven-question referendum on anti-corruption measures in Bogota, Colombia August 26, 2018.	error
“That’s part of the negative outlook we have on the rating.”	distant_evaluation
The government has forecast that Colombia’s $300 billion economy will grow 2.7 percent this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
It has a 3.1 percent deficit target for 2018, and a quarter of local Treasury bonds are held by foreign investors.	cause_general
Beyond his Democratic Center party, Duque has the Conservatives, the U Party and four others in his stable.	cause_general
Some members of U Party, which led a governing coalition under ex-President Juan Manuel Santos, have said they will not back the administration.	distant_expectations_consequences
Centrist parties likes the Liberals and Radical Change have declined to join the coalition, making their votes wild cards.	cause_general
Duque has also pledged to push through a justice system modernization and modify the 2016 peace deal that allowed FARC rebels to demobilize and form a political party.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ex-guerrillas accused of war crimes should be tried before they take up political posts, Duque has said, but changing the deal would require two-thirds majorities.	distant_evaluation
Lawmakers from independent parties could tilt the balance in Duque’s favor.	distant_expectations_consequences
They may be more likely to back the tax and justice system reforms and anti-corruption measures that proved popular in the recent referendum, including a three-term limit for lawmakers.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Carlos Julio Martinez/File Photo	error
“When we’re not supporting him, he’ll have problems,” said Senator German Varon of the Radical Change party.	distant_expectations_consequences
Opposition Senator Jorge Robledo, from the left-wing Democratic Pole, says independents may back the government if offers of patronage are on the table.	distant_expectations_consequences
“With clientelism they’ll arrange majorities,” Robledo said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“That isn’t to say that the president won’t have hurdles, problems, that could cause him a crisis.”	distant_evaluation
Duque took office early last month with a thin legislative majority, and will struggle even before proposed laws reach the floor.	distant_expectations_consequences
His government lacks majorities in several of the committees where lawmakers initially discuss bills.	cause_general
Yet he has pledged to stop special interest groups from trading support for politicians for government favors or funding.	main
Colombians call the practice “marmalade” because money and influence are spread around.	distant_evaluation
Opposition politicians have scoffed at the promise, saying Duque will be obliged to make deals to get his laws through.	distant_expectations_consequences
Graft has become a major issue in Colombia following a raft of scandals involving everything from vote-buying to embezzlement from a school lunch program.	cause_general
(Reuters) - Former Trump White House adviser Steve Bannon is helping to craft the curriculum for a leadership course at a right-wing Roman Catholic institute in Italy, stepping up his efforts to influence conservative thinking in the church.	main
Bannon is also raising funds for the institute in both Europe and the United States, he added.	cause_general
The institute has set “very high academic standards”, Harnwell said.	distant_evaluation
Harnwell, a former European Parliament staffer, also is advising Bannon on his campaign to build a populist Movement across Europe that will support far-right parties in next year’s European Parliament elections, he and Bannon said.	cause_general
Bannon and the Vatican did not immediately respond to requests for comment for this story.	cause_general
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT	cause_general
Harnwell said he founded the institute while working as an aide to a British Conservative European Parliament member.	cause_general
At the time, one of the legislature’s committees was trying to block Rocco Buttiglione, a confidant of Pope John Paul II, from becoming European Commissioner for justice and security.	cause_general
During a confirmation hearing, Buttiglione, who was nominated to the European Commission by then-Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, described homosexuality as a sin and said the principal role of women was to have children.	distant_evaluation
Amid political uproar, Buttiglione withdrew from consideration for the Commission.	cause_general
Harnwell said Buttiglione was a “founding patron” of the Dignitatis Humanae Institute, whose mission he described as “defending the Judeo-Christian tradition” and promoting “human dignity based on the image of God”.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon gestures as he speaks during a conference held by Swiss weekly magazine Die Weltwoche in Zurich, Switzerland, March 6, 2018.	error
Harnwell added: “If you don’t have a culture of religious principle, we no longer have a credible basis for life.”	distant_evaluation
Buttiglione, who described himself as a convinced pro-European, said there were some differences between him and Harnwell.	distant_evaluation
“I am interested in a cultural dialogue with the so-called Populists but I am not one of them and, first and foremost, I am a Catholic and I stand by the pope,” he said in statement to Reuters.	distant_evaluation
Harnwell said the Institute was setting up two training programs: a leadership course that Bannon is helping to design, which Harnwell described a an “academy for the Judeo-Christian West”, and the Cardinal Martino Academy, named after a former papal ambassador to the United Nations, which will promote pro-life Catholic social teachings.	cause_general
RABBLE-ROUSING	distant_historical
Bannon, a rabble-rousing conservative media entrepreneur and activist popular with Trump’s base, was fired from the White House a year ago, but the former adviser remained a Trump ally.	distant_historical
Bannon returned to the right-wing Breitbart News website, which he had headed before running Trump’s presidential campaign.	cause_general
In January, Bannon quit as Breitbart’s executive chairman after angering Trump by harshly criticizing his eldest son.	distant_historical
Leaving Breitbart threatened Bannon’s dream of leading a new political movement that supports his “America First” agenda of tougher trade deals and immigration laws.	distant_expectations_consequences
Harnwell said the Institute expects to present its first courses next year.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Moritz Hager/File Photo	error
The monastery is large enough to accommodate 250-300 students at a time.	cause_general
Burke, the former Archbishop of St. Louis, has been a leading light at the Institute since 2013 and is an outspoken critic of some policies of Pope Francis.	cause_general
Since Francis’ election in 2013, Burke has led the charge by conservatives who have sharply criticized the pope, saying he has left many faithful confused by pronouncements that the church should be more welcoming to homosexuals and divorced Catholics and not be obsessed by “culture war” issues such as abortion.	cause_general
Burke is president of the Institute’s “advisory board”, Harnwell said.	cause_general
The cardinal has condemned Islam as a threat to the West, a position that strongly parallels one of the principal political campaign themes of both Bannon and Trump.	distant_evaluation
In 2014, Pope Francis removed Burke as chief of the Vatican’s Supreme Court, the Apostolic Signatura, and demoted him to become patron of the Order of Malta, a charitable organization.	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO: Cardinal Raymond Leo Burke attends a consistory as Pope Francis elevates five Roman Catholic prelates to the rank of cardinal, at Saint Peter's Basilica at the Vatican, June 28, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi/File Photo	error
Bannon is in “communication” regularly with Burke, although Harnwell acknowledges that the three-times divorced Bannon “doesn’t pretend to be a model Catholic”.	distant_evaluation
Harnwell said the institute itself “takes no view on the pope” or his policies.	distant_evaluation
Benjamin Harnwell, director of the Dignitatis Humanae Institute based in a mountaintop monastery not far from Rome, told Reuters Bannon had been helping to build up the institute for about half of its eight-year life.	cause_general
Burke has met several times with Matteo Salvini, Italy’s far-right deputy prime minister, Harnwell said.	cause_general
Earlier this summer, Salvini ordered Italian ports to stop allowing landings of ships carrying refugees fleeing Middle East strife.	cause_general
After meeting Bannon in Rome last weekend, Salvini announced that he was joining the populist Movement Bannon was setting up aimed at disrupting the European Union.	cause_general
Cardinal Raymond Burke, a leading Vatican conservative who is president of the Institute’s board of advisers, said Bannon would be playing a leading role there.	distant_expectations_consequences
Burke told Reuters he looked forward to working with Harnwell and Bannon “to promote a number of projects that should make a decisive contribution to the defense of what used to be called Christendom”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bannon’s increased engagement with the Institute demonstrates how his involvement in Europe extends beyond electoral politics to an effort to build a populist faction inside the Catholic Church.	distant_evaluation
Bannon told Reuters this week that after Nov. 6 Congressional elections in the United States, he will spend “80-90 percent” of his time in Europe building up his Brussels-based populist “Movement”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bannon, who has visited the Institute’s home at the 800-year-old Monastery of Trisulti and addressed the organization by video link, is helping to draw up the coursework for a training program for conservative Catholic political activists and leaders, Harnwell said.	main
LIMA (Reuters) - Peru’s opposition-run Congress renewed its confidence in the government of centrist President Martin Vizcarra late on Wednesday, averting a political crisis that would have cost him his cabinet and triggered new legislative elections.	main
“There are not winners or losers here,” Vizcarra said on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
“Only Peru wins.”	distant_evaluation
Vizcarra had called for a vote of confidence late on Sunday to force passage of legislation aimed at curbing entrenched graft and rebuilding trust in public institutions following back-to-back scandals in the past year-and-a-half.	cause_general
Critics of Popular Force had pressured Vizcarra to take a more confrontational stance toward the opposition party after it helped to topple his predecessor, former president Pedro Pablo Kuczynski.	cause_general
Kuczynski resigned due to graft allegations on the eve of a second impeachment vote backed by Popular Force in March.	distant_historical
Vizcarra, his vice president, took office to replace him with promises to fight graft “at any cost.”	distant_historical
I have “total confidence in receiving the vote of confidence today,” Vizcarra told journalists surrounded by his cabinet before the vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The four bills must be approved.”	distant_evaluation
Vizcarra’s proposals, which require modifying the constitution, include a new system for selecting judges, a return to a bi-cameral Congress, stricter campaign financing rules and a ban on the re-election of lawmakers.	cause_general
He pitched the proposals in July after an influence-peddling scandal in the judiciary triggered street protests and anger at the political class.	cause_general
Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra (C) greets Prime Minister Cesar Villanueva outside Government Palace in Lima, Peru.	error
Popular Force has denied trying to stall the legislation, arguing that parts of it were not as urgent as other matters, such as rebuilding areas affected by severe flooding last year.	distant_evaluation
Fujimori told a crowd of supporters on Wednesday that Vizcarra called for the confidence vote to cover up potentially damaging revelations from ongoing graft probes.	distant_evaluation
“What this kind of threat shows is nervousness,” Fujimori said in a video of her speech to supporters posted on Facebook.	distant_evaluation
“No matter what they try to do...all Peruvians must know the truth,” she said.	distant_evaluation
Undated photo released on September 19, 2018.	error
Courtesy of Agencia Andina/Handout via REUTERS	error
The 82-22 vote in favor of Vizcarra’s six-month-old government commits lawmakers to passing his judicial and political reforms by Oct. 4, a rare victory over the conservative opposition party, Popular Force, that controls Congress.	cause_specific
Earlier on Wednesday, Popular Force leader Keiko Fujimori, a twice-defeated presidential candidate and the daughter of former autocrat Alberto Fujimori, accused Vizcarra of trying to stage a legislative coup d’etat.	distant_evaluation
Under Peru’s constitution, a vote of no-confidence would have forced Vizcarra to replace his entire cabinet.	distant_expectations_consequences
But since Congress has already dismissed one cabinet, he would also have been able to call new legislative elections in response.	distant_expectations_consequences
Vizcarra called for unity after the vote.	cause_general
KAMPALA (Reuters) - Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni on Sunday warned against foreign interference in the country’s politics days after an opposition call for the United States to suspend military aid over the government’s human rights record.	main
In power since 1986, Museveni has been widely accused by opposition critics and rights campaigners of using security forces to suppress opposition to his rule.	cause_general
“NGOs (non-governmental organizations) funded by foreign governments actually give money to opposition players, give advice, lie on their behalf,” Museveni said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni arrives for a group picture at the BRICS summit meeting in Johannesburg, South Africa, July 27, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Mike Hutchings/File Photo	error
Museveni also said his government had taken a decision to deploy thousands of auxiliary forces in the capital Kampala to boost security after a rash of assassinations of prominent people, including two police officers, a lawmaker and a public prosecutor.	cause_general
In July, the constitution was amended to remove the presidential age limit of 75 years, meaning Museveni can run again for president in 2021 — the year the country hopes to begin oil production.	distant_expectations_consequences
(This version of the story was refiled to fix a typo in the headline)	error
Museveni also accused some unnamed foreign countries of seeking to influence the nation’s politics by funneling assistance to the opposition through non-governmental organizations.	cause_general
“It is important that external players refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of other countries,” Museveni told a press conference on Sunday.	distant_evaluation
“If there’s any problem in Uganda, I surely will handle it better than the outsider.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Last week the U.S. lawyer for opposition lawmaker Robert Kyagulanyi, a musician known by his stage name Bobi Wine, called on the United States to stop funding Uganda’s military as a punitive measure against what Kyagulanyi said was torture by authorities in his country.	cause_specific
Kyagulanyi and fellow parliamentarian Francis Zaake say they were tortured by security forces while in detention in August.	cause_specific
The case led to protests against Museveni.	cause_general
Kyagulanyi, who has emerged as a formidable threat to the president, was charged with treason over his alleged role in the stoning of Museveni’s convoy during campaigning for a parliamentary seat.	cause_general
The government in Kampala denies torturing Kyagulanyi.	distant_evaluation
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven lost a no-confidence vote in parliament on Tuesday, with the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats threatening to block any new government unless they are given a say in policy.	main
A new government could take weeks or months - as was the case in Germany and Italy - to thrash out.	distant_expectations_consequences
The speaker will start discussions with party leaders on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
“VERY COMPLEX”	distant_evaluation
After Lofven’s ousting, the speaker of parliament is now seen turning to Ulf Kristersson, leader of the biggest Alliance party, the Moderates, to try to form a new administration.	main_consequence
But lacking a majority, Kristersson needs support either from the Sweden Democrats, who want to freeze immigration and a vote on membership of the European Union, or the center left.	distant_expectations_consequences
Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven speaks to the press, after he was ousted in no-confidence vote, in Stockholm, Sweden September 25, 2018.	error
TT News Agency/Anders Wiklund via REUTERS	error
Neither choice looks viable.	distant_evaluation
“If the Alliance parties choose to try to govern as the smallest bloc, then they make themselves totally dependent on the Sweden Democrats,” Lofven said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Sweden Democrats want a voice on immigration, welfare and crime policies as the price for supporting a new government.	cause_general
The rise of the far right across Europe has forced many traditional parties into an uncomfortable choice of sharing power with populist forces or reaching out to long-standing opponents to keep them out.	cause_general
“We will do everything in our power to stop any attempt to form a government, do everything to bring down every government, which does not give us a reasonable influence in proportion to our electoral support,” SD party leader Jimmie Akesson said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Alliance of the Moderates, Centre, Liberal and Christian Democrats has said it will not negotiate with the party.	cause_general
Nevertheless, Moderate leader Kristersson said his chances of forming a government were good “for the simple reason that voter support for an Alliance government is much stronger than that for any other government”.	distant_expectations_consequences
“But, I am very conscious of the fact that the situation in parliament is very complex,” he said.	distant_evaluation
The only other alternative, support from the center left, has been ruled out by Lofven, who is hoping for another shot at being prime minister himself.	distant_expectations_consequences
An Alliance government has only “slim chances” of being formed, Linnaeus University political scientist Magnus Hagevi said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Despite the uncertainty, markets barely reacted on Tuesday.	cause_general
Sweden’s economy has enjoyed strong growth for years and government finances are strong.	cause_general
Economic policy is unlikely to shift radically under a new government and there is broad agreement about the need to tackle structural problems in areas such as housing and the labor market.	distant_expectations_consequences
The crown has strengthened since the election.	distant_evaluation
Sweden, long seen as a bastion of liberal values and political stability, now faces the same choice with its center-left and center-right blocs evenly balanced after the Sept. 9 election and the Sweden Democrats holding the balance of power.	cause_general
If Kristersson fails to form a government, the speaker could turn once more to Lofven, still the leader of the biggest party in parliament, the Social Democrats, who have dominated Swedish politics for decades.	distant_expectations_consequences
Slideshow (6 Images)	error
“I want to lead a government that has broader support in the country’s parliament and that allows us to leave stalemate of bloc politics,” Lofven said after the no-confidence vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Lofven hopes that the aversion the Centre and Liberal parties have for the Sweden Democrats will outweigh the political differences they have with his Social Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
Swedish election scenarios graphic: tmsnrt.rs/2p45tJh	error
“Now the excitement will really start,” said Ulf Bjereld, political scientist at Gothenburg University.	distant_evaluation
“The parties will have to show their true colors now.”	distant_evaluation
The Sweden Democrats have been shunned by all other parties since entering parliament in 2010, making any tie-up unlikely.	distant_expectations_consequences
But if there is no viable government after four attempts by the speaker, then a new election would have to be called within three months, with the main parties likely to face a similar dilemma again.	distant_expectations_consequences
Voters delivered a hung parliament in the Sept. 9 election when Lofven’s center-left bloc won 144 seats, one more than the center-right opposition Alliance.	cause_general
The Sweden Democrats, a party that has its roots in the white supremacist fringe, got 62 seats and backed the Alliance in Tuesday’s vote, which was an obligatory test of the prime minister’s parliamentary support after an election.	cause_general
A sign displaying price of peppers is seen at a stall in a municipal market in Caracas, Venezuela August 21, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Marco Bello	error
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuelan consumer prices rose 488,865 percent in the 12 months ending in September, a member of the opposition-run congress reported on Monday, as the OPEC nation’s hyperinflation continues to accelerate amid a broader economic collapse.	main
Daily inflation is now 4 percent, according to opposition legislator Angel Alvarado, with monthly inflation rising to 233 percent in September from 223 percent in August.	cause_general
In an effort to stabilize prices, President Nicolas Maduro in August cut five zeros off the ailing bolivar currency, boosted the minimum wage by 3,000 percent, and pegged salaries to an elusive state-backed cryptocurrency.	cause_general
Opposition legislators have become the only source for economic indicators after the central bank stopped publishing such information nearly three years ago as the economy began unraveling.	cause_general
The International Monetary Fund estimates consumer prices would rise 1,000,000 percent in 2018.	distant_expectations_consequences
Maduro was re-elected in May in a vote that dozens of foreign governments described as rigged.	distant_historical
He insists the election was free and fair and says the situation is the result of an “economic war” led by the opposition and business leaders who are arbitrarily raising prices.	distant_evaluation
GUATEMALA CITY (Reuters) - Guatemala deployed members of the feared Kaibil special forces unit on Wednesday to stop protesters from interrupting a session of parliament, triggering anger among opposition leaders who say President Jimmy Morales is using the military to cow critics.	main
The heavy security presence, which also involved more than 2,000 police, prevented a large march from getting close to Congress, after protesters on Tuesday crowded lawmakers and shouted abuse to oppose a bill they say weakens independent institutions.	main_consequence
Guatemala celebrates independence from Spain on Sept. 15.	cause_general
Created in the 1970s to fight a counter-insurgency campaign against Guatemala’s leftist guerrillas during the civil war, which left over 200,000 dead, the Kaibils were infamous for their brutality and involvement in an emblematic massacre.	cause_general
“I decline to participate in the solemn session in parliament, because I cannot take part in an event with the unnecessary and intimidating presence of the army toward a population that has the legitimate right to protest,” the country’s Human Rights Ombudsman, Jordan Rodas, said on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
His sentiments were echoed by several opposition lawmakers who described the security measures as disproportionate for a peaceful protest.	distant_evaluation
The police and troops blocked off parts of the city center as farmers and students marched for a third day, carrying signs that said “No more corruption” and demanded the resignation of Morales.	cause_general
Late last month, Morales said the country would not renew the mandate of the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) that had brought down his predecessor and also tried to have Morales impeached.	cause_general
The United Nations has expressed serious concerns about the decision.	cause_general
“We demand the president let the CICIG continue.	distant_anecdotal
We do not want more corruption,” said Cirilo Perez, a local indigenous leader who helped organize protests.	distant_anecdotal
A demonstrator walks by fireworks during a protest against Guatemala's President Jimmy Morales outside the Congress in Guatemala City, Guatemala September 11, 2018.	error
Demonstrators are also protesting two legislative initiatives that lawmakers who back Morales are aiming to pass in the coming days.	cause_general
One bill would limit the ability of investigators to strip politicians of their immunity from prosecution and another would permit almost 80 congressmen who have defected from the opposition to join Morales’ party.	distant_expectations_consequences
Working with Guatemala’s attorney general, the CICIG in 2017 sought to prosecute Morales, a former comedian, over illegal financing allegations during his election campaign two years earlier.	distant_historical
Morales denies any wrongdoing and says the CICIG has overstepped its remit.	cause_general
Slideshow (8 Images)	error
When Morales announced his decision not to renew CICIG’s mandate he was flanked by rows of soldiers.	cause_general
U.S.-donated military vehicles appeared at the commission’s offices that day in a move criticized by U.S. lawmakers as a political statement.	cause_general
CICIG has a year to exit the country.	cause_general
Despite previous staunch support from the United States for the anti-corruption body, the State Department has not spoken strongly to back it this time.	cause_general
Morales has aligned himself closely with President Donald Trump by moving the Guatemalan embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.	cause_general
REUTERS/Luis Echeverria	error
The deployment of thousands of police and soldiers was the latest example of Morales resorting to displays of military strength since he announced the shuttering of a U.N.-backed anti-graft commission late last month.	cause_general
That move, and his subsequent barring from Guatemala of the head of the commission, have triggered global criticism and mounting street protests across the Central American nation.	main_consequence
Many Guatemalans have been sensitive to the use of military for internal security and political purposes since the country’s 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996, and successive military governments in the 1970s and 1980s.	distant_evaluation
“There is free expression of thought in Guatemala ... but freedom does not mean to hit, abuse, break or stain,” Morales said to applause from his allies in a speech to mark Independence Day in Congress.	distant_evaluation
“I repeat my call for peace, for unity,” he said, as Kaibil soldiers in red berets bearing semi-automatic weapons formed a cordon around the building.	distant_evaluation
In a statement, the army said the deployments were normal measures for presidential security.	cause_specific
MOSCOW (Reuters) - U.S. mixed martial arts fighter Jeffrey Monson, granted Russian citizenship by President Vladimir Putin in May, was elected on Sunday to the council of deputies of a small city just outside Moscow, official election results showed on Monday.	main
Monson, a vocal critic of U.S. foreign policy, said in January 2016 he was applying for Russian citizenship because he had felt a solidarity with the Russian people since he first visited their country in 2011.	distant_historical
“I have big plans for work with children, am preparing various projects, including projects focused on promoting healthy lifestyles,” Monson was cited as saying on election day by the local division of the United Russia party.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Everything I do in Krasnogorsk - it’s because I love Russia,” Monson was cited as saying.	distant_evaluation
Videos shared on Monson’s official Instagram page showed the sportsman in a Russia hockey team sweater, casting a ballot at a Krasnogorsk polling station with the help of a translator.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: American mixed martial arts fighter Jeff Monson attends a news conference in St. Petersburg, Russia October 17, 2013.	error
Interpress/Andrei Pronin via REUTERS	error
Monson, 47, a tattooed cage fighter known as The Snowman, registered in June to run for a seat on the council of Krasnogorsk, northwest of Moscow, where election documents say he now works as a coach in a sports club.	distant_historical
On the website of Moscow region’s election commission, Monson is listed as fourth on the ruling United Russia party’s list of candidates for the Krasnogorsk city council.	cause_general
United Russia won 47.9 percent of this vote, automatically securing a seat for the MMA fighter, who was born in the U.S. state of Minnesota.	cause_general
Writing on social media, Monson, who has previously cultivated ties to the Russian Communist Party, said he ran as an independent.	cause_general
“I was invited by United Russia party to run but I am independent.	distant_evaluation
Unfortunately I learned there are no communists in Communist party in Russia,” Monson said on Monday.	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Opposition among Americans to Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, has increased in the wake of his testimony last week before a U.S. Senate committee in which he defiantly denied sexual misconduct allegations, Reuters/Ipsos polling data showed on Wednesday.	main
Opposition rose among Democrats by 6 percentage points to 71 percent and was relatively unchanged among people unaffiliated with a political party compared to before the hearing, according to the poll.	cause_general
Support among Republicans stood at 70 percent, rising 4 percentage points in the days after the hearing, but was lower among Republican women, at 64 percent.	cause_general
Among independents and people unaffiliated with a political party, 31 percent opposed Kavanaugh, 20 percent supported him and 49 percent said they did not know.	cause_general
The fight over Kavanaugh’s nomination comes against the backdrop of the #MeToo movement fighting sexual harassment and assault that has toppled a succession of powerful men.	cause_general
The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English.	cause_general
It gathered responses from 4,057 U.S. adults, including 1,347 Republicans and 1,653 Democrats.	cause_general
It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of about 2 percentage points	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh testifies in front of the Senate Judiciary committee regarding sexual assault allegations at the Dirksen Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill in Washington DC, U.S., September 27, 2018.	error
Gabriella Demczuk/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo	error
In the latest seven-day average in a survey of U.S. adults, 41 percent of respondents opposed Kavanaugh, 33 percent supported the conservative federal appeals court judge and 26 percent said they did not know.	cause_specific
Opposition to Kavanaugh grew 4 percentage points after the Sept. 27 Judiciary Committee hearing in which university professor Christine Blasey Ford detailed a sexual assault allegation against Kavanaugh and he denied it, portraying himself as the victim of a “political hit.”	cause_general
Opposition grew every day after the hearing in the poll, conducted between Sept. 25 and Oct. 1.	cause_general
The increase in opposition to Kavanaugh, facing a confirmation vote in the Senate after being nominated by Trump for a lifetime position on the court, appears to be driven by those who previously did not have an opinion.	distant_evaluation
The percentage of respondents with no opinion on Kavanaugh decreased by about 7 percentage points compared to a week before the hearing.	cause_general
Support for Kavanaugh has remained relatively stable, the polling showed, rising slightly after the hearing.	cause_general
BANGKOK (Reuters) - A new Thai party that aims to shake up politics hit back at the ruling junta on Wednesday, accusing it of tarnishing the image of the southeast Asian nation by filing police charges against some party members.	main
“If, after their testimony, we think there is evidence, then we will proceed with charges.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Reuters could not immediately reach a junta spokesman for comment.	cause_general
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, 64, an ex-army chief who led the coup, has shown signs of wanting to stay in power after next year’s vote, touring the countryside to meet people in what critics say is his bid to continue in the job.	distant_expectations_consequences
Thailand is preparing for a general election by next May, promised by the military junta that has ruled since ousting a civilian government in 2014, ushering in curbs on politicians as well as arresting and jailing dozens of critics.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The NCPO used its power to suppress the public who have political views that differ from its own,” the Future Forward Party said in a statement, referring to the junta by its official name, the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO).	distant_evaluation
“The results of these actions have impacted and damaged the image of the country,” it said on its official Facebook page.	distant_evaluation
The party launched this year, hoping to woo young people and win backing from those seeking an alternative to military rule.	cause_general
It is led by an auto parts billionaire and newcomer to the political scene, Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, 39.	cause_general
He and two party members met police on Tuesday after the junta filed a police complaint over a June 29 speech by Thanathorn shown on Facebook, accusing the trio of provoking a “public disturbance” and violating the Computer Crimes Act.	cause_specific
Police said they were reviewing the charges.	cause_general
“We called them in for interrogation,” the police official investigating the case, Athilak Whangsirivorakoon, told Reuters by telephone.	cause_specific
BANGKOK (Reuters) - The last time most Thais saw politician Suthep Thaugsuban was in 2015 when he entered the Buddhist monkhood and announced his retirement after spearheading protests that culminated in a military coup against a government he detested.	distant_historical
“He’s a good guy, not corrupt, determined, and he has the trust of his people and is loyal to the monarchy,” Suthep told Reuters in a recent interview.	distant_evaluation
“So I cheer him on, the more he can succeed, the better for the country,” Suthep said, while adding he had no desire to take on any leadership role in a new government.	distant_evaluation
Suthep, for years known as a pugnacious deal-maker, has been a central figure in well over a decade of turmoil that began in 2000, when former telecommunications tycoon Thaksin became prime minister for the first time.	distant_historical
Thaksin fired up support in the provinces with pro-poor policies, and shook up politics with his brash, election-winning ways.	distant_historical
In the process, he made enemies in the Bangkok-based, military-dominated establishment, which accused him of corruption and buying election victories.	cause_general
Suthep, a former shrimp and palm-oil magnate from Thailand’s south, served as deputy prime minister in a pro-establishment government after Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup, and which oversaw a bloody crackdown on Thaksin’s “red-shirt” supporters occupying Bangkok streets in 2010.	distant_historical
Suthep expects his party’s support to come from Thaksin’s main enemies, the Bangkok middle class, and he’s keen to see that the party sets an example with transparent funding and the inclusion of women, to bolster that support.	distant_expectations_consequences
‘LEADERS GONE’	distant_evaluation
Suthep lead protests against a government formed in 2011 by Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, rallying pro-establishment crowds who tried to march on the government’s offices to shut it down.	distant_historical
The turmoil eventually triggered the coup by then army chief Prayuth.	distant_historical
Politician Suthep Thaugsuban gestures during an interview with Reuters in Bangkok, Thailand, June 10, 2018.	error
Suthep and his allies celebrated the fall of another government loyal to their enemy, Thaksin.	distant_historical
Suthep said he expected Thaksin’s party to see its support whittled down in its northern and northeastern heartlands in the next election, though the Shinawatras still commanded a significant block of votes.	distant_expectations_consequences
But the people were slowly seeing the truth about them, he said.	distant_evaluation
“All their leaders are gone,” Suthep said of the voters who have loyally stuck with Thaksin’s parties.	distant_evaluation
“People can see that the brother and sister have fled, deserting those that served them, who are in jail, from cabinet ministers to ordinary folk,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Thaksin has been living in exile since 2008 to avoid a graft conviction he said was politically motivated.	distant_evaluation
Yingluck fled from the country last August during a criminal negligence trial that eventually sentenced her to five years in jail.	distant_historical
She also denied wrongdoing.	distant_evaluation
Suthep praised the military government for overseeing the introduction of a constitution that critics say enshrines the military’s sway over civilian governments.	distant_evaluation
But he said the military government had not completed its work and he wanted his party to ensure the country would stay on the course the military had set, with no sliding back to what he described as the dangerous old ways.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Panu Wongcha-um	error
Politician Suthep Thaugsuban speaks during an interview with Reuters in Bangkok, Thailand, June 10, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Panu Wongcha-um	error
A political rival said Suthep was making a fatal mistake by nailing his colors to the military’s mast.	distant_evaluation
“This will be Suthep’s last role,” said Nattawut Saikua, a deputy prime minister in Yingluck’s cabinet, who, like Suthep, is known as a fiery orator, though for the opposite side in Thailand’s drawn-out political battle.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Politicians who walk away from the democratic system and stand with a dictator have never been able to come back or be accepted by the people.”	distant_evaluation
The military, after taking power, clamped a tight lid on politics, and the rivalry between the military-royalist establishment and new upstart political forces that had roiled the country for a decade was stifled.	distant_historical
But now a long-promised general election is on the horizon - due sometime between February and May - and old animosities are stirring and veteran political brawler Suthep, 68, is back.	distant_expectations_consequences
Suthep, a one-time deputy prime minister in a pro-establishment government, has said he will contest the election under the banner of a new party he set up to sustain the work of the military government and to campaign for its leader, Prayuth Chan-ocha, to be prime minister of a civilian administration.	main
The return of Suthep, who has a record of mobilizing crowds on the streets in support of the establishment, could be a big asset for the military which has made no secret of its aim to retain a grip over politics after the election.	distant_expectations_consequences
The military and Suthep have common cause in their burning desire to rid the country of the influence of former premier Thaksin Shinawatra and his family, whose supporters have been biding their time and pinning their hopes on the election.	cause_general
Suthep makes no secret of his support for former army chief Prayuth and his wish to see him return as prime minister after the vote, but says he must defer to his new party, the Action Coalition for Thailand, which has yet to spell out its position.	distant_evaluation
WINNIPEG, Manitoba (Reuters) - With one surprise court ruling, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau faces the risk of contesting next year’s election with key pieces of his economic and environmental plans in ruins.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Liberal government approval of Trans Mountain would provide Alberta oil producers with a larger export outlet to the British Columbia coast, and secure Alberta’s support of Trudeau’s national emissions plan.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trudeau doubled down in May, agreeing to buy the faltering pipeline project for C$4.5 billion from Kinder Morgan Canada.	distant_historical
But Trudeau’s bargain collapsed with the court’s rejection and Alberta Premier Rachel Notley’s exit from the carbon plan.	main_consequence
Buying a pipeline was always unpopular with progressive voters, said Nik Nanos, head of polling firm Nanos Research.	distant_evaluation
“Now they run into double jeopardy politically because they have an issue of whether they can deliver.	distant_evaluation
And it’s having a knock-on effect on other issues, like carbon pricing.”	distant_evaluation
The party, which won a huge 2015 majority, is running close with the opposition Conservatives according to polls, and faces another risk in tough U.S. trade talks.	distant_evaluation
Trudeau on Friday said he could proceed with a national environment plan without Alberta’s support.	cause_general
His worst scenario would be to shed environment-minded voters to the New Democratic Party and economy-focused supporters to the Conservatives, while other Liberals stay home on voting day expected in October 2019, Nanos said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Such a scenario would weaken Trudeau in British Columbia and Quebec, potentially costing a second term, Nanos said.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau answers questions from the media in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August 8, 2018.	error
To be sure, opposition leaders have struggled to connect with voters, making it harder to capitalize, Thomas said.	distant_evaluation
But there is no quick path either to resolving Trudeau’s pipeline-centered problems.	distant_evaluation
The court flagged regulatory agency the National Energy Board (NEB) for wrongly excluding a review of tanker traffic, and criticized Ottawa for failing to meaningfully consider indigenous concerns.	cause_specific
Trudeau could assemble a team to consult First Nations, and direct the NEB to produce a study of tanker traffic, said Richard Masson, executive fellow at the University of Calgary.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Elders leave as Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau addresses the crowd during a town hall meeting at Vancouver Island University in Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada, February 2, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Kevin Light/File Photo	error
Accomplishing that and approving Trans Mountain again before the next campaign would be challenging, at a time when the Liberals are separately legislating tougher regulations for resource projects, Masson said.	distant_evaluation
Appealing to Canada’s Supreme Court may be faster, said Robin Junger, a lawyer at McMillan Vantage dealing with environmental and aboriginal issues.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trudeau’s best hope might be changing the political narrative altogether, Nanos said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“In an ideal world, the Liberals would knock the pipeline off the news.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi/File Photo	error
The Federal Court of Appeal overturned on Thursday the Liberal government’s 2016 approval to expand Trans Mountain, a critical pipeline to link Canadian crude with foreign markets, followed hours later by Alberta’s tit-for-tat withdrawal from Trudeau’s climate plan.	main
The day’s events amplified criticism that Trudeau has failed to produce a regulatory system in which oil pipelines stand a chance of approval and undermined the PM’s ambitions to reduce emissions.	distant_evaluation
In short, they left him vulnerable to bleeding disappointed supporters on both his right and left, said Paul Thomas, professor emeritus at University of Manitoba.	distant_evaluation
“A lot was riding on the energy file,” Thomas said.	distant_evaluation
“There is no spin you can put on this that would be positive.”	distant_evaluation
At the heart of the centrist Trudeau’s plans for the economy and environment was a bargain with Alberta, Canada’s energy province.	cause_general
SEOUL (Reuters) - When North Korean leader Kim Jong Un agreed in June to help return the remains of American troops killed in the 1950-53 Korean War, it was seen as one of the more attainable goals to come out of his summit with U.S. President Donald Trump.	cause_specific
Bill Richardson, a former U.S. diplomat with experience negotiating with North Korea, including during the recovery of the remains of seven Americans in 2007, said Pyongyang was using the issue as “a bargaining chip”.	distant_evaluation
“They’re stalling,” he told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“I think in the end the North Koreans will turn over the majority of the remains that they have - but it will have a price.	main
Not just a financial price.”	main
REMAINS RETURNED	distant_historical
Between the 1990s and 2005, more than 400 caskets of remains found in North Korea were returned to the United States, and the bodies of some 330 Americans were accounted for, according to the DPAA.	distant_historical
Decades-old remains that North Korea has handed over in the past have not always been identifiable as U.S. troops.	distant_historical
The U.S. and North Korea worked together on so-called joint field activities (JFAs) to recover remains from 1996-2005, until Washington halted operations, expressing concerns about the safety of its personnel.	distant_historical
A Congressional Research Service (CRS) report said the United States paid $28 million to North Korea for assistance in the effort.	distant_historical
“To the best of my knowledge, it was never based on a per body calculation.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un leave after signing documents that acknowledge the progress of the talks and pledge to keep momentum going, after their summit at the Capella Hotel on Sentosa island in Singapore June 12, 2018.	error
Payments were made in support of each field mission – each joint recovery operation,” said Frank Jannuzi, a former Democratic Senate Foreign Relations Committee staffer focusing on East Asian and Pacific affairs.	distant_evaluation
Payments were to compensate North Korea for direct expenses incurred such as fuel costs, disruption of agricultural planting, or equipment costs, he said.	distant_evaluation
In 2011, President Barack Obama’s administration agreed with Pyongyang to restart recovery missions, offering to pay $5,669,160 in “compensation” for services provided by North Korea.	distant_historical
Those planned missions never happened, however, as Washington called off the deal after North Korea tested a rocket in early 2012, said Paul Cole, author of “POW/MIA Accounting.”	distant_historical
“If the past is any indicator, the (North Koreans) are demanding up-front deliveries of food, fuel and at least $5 million in cash,” Cole told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
“In the era of ‘maximum pressure,’ the dilemma for the Trump administration is whether to give the (North Koreans) massive amounts of food, fuel, trucks, SUVs and millions in cash, or cancel the deal.”	distant_evaluation
Former officials say typically North Korea has not asked for compensation when it unilaterally returns remains it recovers, such as the roughly 200 currently being discussed.	distant_evaluation
But if the United States hopes to send its own teams into North Korea, there will likely be a cost.	distant_expectations_consequences
Asked whether the cost of future joint field activities would be similar to what was paid in the past, the Pentagon’s DPAA Public Affairs Office said: “As of yet, there are no JFAs scheduled in North Korea so we cannot speculate on what such activities may cost.”	distant_evaluation
The U.S. State Department did not have an immediate comment on the negotiations, but Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said last week North Korea had committed to return the first remains “in the next couple of weeks.” [nL1N1UE1A3]	cause_specific
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst/File Photo	error
According to CRS, the United States also paid for recovery operations in Vietnam.	distant_historical
As with North Korea, critics complained the Vietnamese government charged “extraordinarily high fees for providing support ... and that the services received are by no means as lavish as the bills presented indicate”.	distant_evaluation
South Korea’s former vice minister of foreign affairs and trade, Kim Sung-han, said Pyongyang would likely want to use the return of remains to improve its relations with Washington, while avoiding addressing more touchy subjects such as denuclearization.	distant_expectations_consequences
“North Korea wants the war declared ended sooner rather than later, so trust can be built and progress on its international standing can be made,” he said, adding that any “reimbursements” were likely to violate sanctions.	distant_expectations_consequences
Besides being politically sensitive, however, handing the North Korean government stacks of cash offers no guarantee that authenticated U.S. servicemen’s remains would be recovered, Jannuzi said.	distant_evaluation
“We might spend a million dollars and come up with nothing.”	distant_evaluation
American officials expect North Korea to hand over around 50 sets of remains in coming days or weeks, but the drawn-out process of negotiations to get to this point highlights the complications involved in the issue.	main
At the heart of the difficulty, former officials involved in previous recovery missions say, are likely demands from North Korea for cash compensation, as well as the unsolved tensions over North’s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile arsenal.	main
More than 7,700 U.S. troops who fought in the Korean War remain unaccounted for, with about 5,300 of those lost in what is now North Korea, according to the Defence POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA), the U.S. military agency tasked with tracking down prisoners of war and troops missing in action.	cause_general
The Korean War ended in a truce, not a peace treaty, leaving the United States and North Korea still technically at war.	cause_general
Soon after the June summit, Trump announced North Korea had returned the remains of 200 soldiers that had already been found, but this has yet to take place and negotiations over the actual handing over of the remains have dragged on.	cause_general
Trump told an audience of veterans on Tuesday that he hoped “fallen warriors” would begin to come home “very soon.”	distant_expectations_consequences
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Business and political leaders are increasing the pressure on Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to agree on a deal to renew NAFTA and drop his insistence that no deal is better than a bad deal.	cause_general
“The problem with the bold statement that ‘No deal is better than a bad deal’ is that a bad deal is very much in the eye of the beholder,” said John Manley, a former Liberal finance minister who heads the Business Council of Canada, which groups many chief executives.	distant_evaluation
“Anyone who thought ... we were going to get something better than what we had under NAFTA 1.0 was delusional.	distant_evaluation
We knew that this was all about taking some things away,” Manley said by phone on Tuesday.	distant_evaluation
Trump came to power last year threatening to tear up NAFTA unless major changes were made to a pact he blames for the loss of manufacturing jobs.	distant_historical
Last month he announced a side deal with Mexico and made clear he was prepared to exclude Canada if necessary.	cause_general
“Canada has taken advantage of our country for a long time.	distant_evaluation
We love Canada ... but they are in a position that is not a good position,” Trump told reporters on Tuesday, complaining about high Canadian dairy tariffs.	distant_evaluation
U.S. negotiators are pressing for more access to Canada’s protected dairy market.	cause_general
Doug Ford, the premier of Ontario - Canada’s most populous province and center of the auto industry - will meet Canadian negotiators on Wednesday to express his concerns.	distant_expectations_consequences
“You’re all hearing the rumors that we are hearing, that maybe they don’t want a deal.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau answers questions from the media in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August 8, 2018.	error
So we’re going down there to say that ‘You bloody well need to get a deal’,” Ontario trade minister Jim Wilson said on Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trudeau’s Liberals have no chance of winning a federal election set for October 2019 unless they do well in Ontario.	distant_expectations_consequences
In the western province of Saskatchewan, premier Scott Moe also expressed concern about walking away from the talks.	distant_evaluation
“We cannot move forward with a bad deal, I’m not certain we can move forward with no deal either,” he said last Thursday.	distant_evaluation
Trudeau told an interviewer on Monday that a decision point might be weeks away.	distant_expectations_consequences
Canadian officials say they do not believe the U.S. Congress would ever back the idea of excluding Canada from NAFTA.	distant_expectations_consequences
Manley said his members were increasingly concerned that Trudeau’s team might be relying on Congress, which he termed “a very high risk strategy”.	distant_evaluation
U.S. Republican House Majority Whip Steve Scalise on Tuesday cited “a growing frustration with many in Congress” over Canadian negotiating tactics and suggested Canada could be left out of NAFTA.	distant_expectations_consequences
In a separate Washington development, U.S. business leaders on Tuesday urged the administration to include Canada in any trade agreement with Mexico.	cause_general
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi/File Photo	error
Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland will hold fresh talks on the North American Free Trade Agreement with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in Washington on Wednesday as a U.S.-imposed deadline of Oct. 1 looms.	main
The two sides are far apart in some areas and Trudeau says his Liberal government will walk away if necessary.	distant_expectations_consequences
Signs are growing that hitherto solid domestic support for Ottawa’s stance is fraying amid fears of the potential economic damage.	distant_evaluation
The United States takes 75 percent of Canada’s goods exports and President Donald Trump is threatening to impose tariffs on autos.	cause_general
Freeland defended Ottawa’s stance on Tuesday, saying “any negotiator who goes into a negotiation believing that he or she must get a deal at any price ... (will) be forced to pay the maximum price for that deal.”	distant_evaluation
That approach though is starting to worry some.	distant_evaluation
(Reuters) - Local TV companies such as Sinclair Broadcast Group (SBGI.O) and Gray Television (GTN.N) are set for a significant political advertising boost this year as candidates and special interest groups are spending heavily to woo voters in mid-term elections.	main
The new target would be 5.8 percent of total revenue, according to analyst estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters data.	distant_expectations_consequences
Of course the momentum could change as 80 percent of political ad spending typically occurs between the start of September and election day, which is Nov. 6 this year.	distant_evaluation
But analysts are hopeful the early strength will continue.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It looks like its going to be a record year even without a Presidential race,” said Daniel Kurnos an analyst covering broadcasters at Benchmark Company.	distant_expectations_consequences
For 2018, political advertising could generate $2.4 billion revenue for local broadcasters compared with $2.1 billion in 2014, according to Kantar Media CMAG unit’s latest forecast issued in 2017.	distant_historical
Steven Passwaiter, vice president and general manager at CMAG, said he aims to update the estimate this month.	distant_expectations_consequences
The 2016 U.S. presidential election generated $2.85 billion for local broadcasters, according to Passwaiter.	distant_historical
The presidential race tends to attract more advertising dollars than local mid-term battles but 2016 spending was much weaker than expected as Trump relied far more on free media than past candidates.	distant_historical
(reut.rs/2M8IPNw)	error
That disappointment, which pummeled broadcasters shares in 2016, is fuelling hopes that forecasts are more solid this year.	distant_evaluation
A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in New York, U.S., July 31, 2018.	error
“Everybody got burned two years ago because the presidential spend turned out to be a dud.	distant_evaluation
I think these guys are going to be incredibly careful not to raise expectations to disappoint the street again,” said Passwaiter.	distant_evaluation
Gray Television shares rose 14.8 percent in the two sessions after its Aug. 7 quarterly report.	cause_general
In 2016, the stock fell 24.7 percent from June to October.	distant_historical
Sinclair’s shares rose 4 percent on Wednesday after its report, although enthusiasm was dampened by the collapse of its effort to buy Tribune Media (TRCO.N).Sinclair stock fell 20.6 percent from June to October in 2016.	cause_general
Another local broadcaster E.W.	cause_general
Scripps (SSP.O), rose 5.7 percent after it reported results on Aug. 3 including political ad revenue of $14.9 million, compared with $7 million pro forma political revenue in the 2014 quarter.	cause_general
Political brought 5.3 percent of its total second-quarter revenue.	cause_general
Investors are careful about making bets on political revenue for broadcasters as it only shows up every two years, before elections and is unpredictable.	distant_evaluation
The amount a broadcaster generates varies a lot in election years as it depends on how many of their stations serve battleground states where campaigns spend heavily in a particular year for reasons such as close polls.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson	error
Also, strong demand for political commercials tends to eat into core advertising revenue from clients like carmakers as broadcasters only have a finite number of timeslots, said Leo Kulp, analyst at RBC Capital Management.	distant_evaluation
But even if broadcasters can’t bank on future political windfalls, a strong season is still a big positive, according to Kulp.	distant_evaluation
“What it does is help generate incremental free cash flow.	distant_evaluation
It’s going to translate to the companies deleveraging more and giving them more capacity to do M&A,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Demand for commercial airtime is particularly strong ahead of elections for one third of the U.S. Senate seats, and all 435 House of Representatives seats as well as positions such as state governorships, because U.S. President Donald Trump’s Republican party is fighting to keep its majority in both houses of Congress while Democrats are battling to turn the tables.	main
Politicians and their supporters from both political parties are looking to win voters with their stances on hot button issues such as gun control and abortion rights.	cause_general
“There’s a lot of excitement and probably a lot of paranoia and a lot of fear, and those things drive political dollars,” Kevin Latek, chief legal and development officer at Gray Television, told investors on Tuesday, according to a conference call transcript.	distant_evaluation
Gray posted second-quarter political ad revenue of $18.1 million, 20 percent above the high end of its forecast and 9 percent above the same quarter in 2014, the last mid-term election year.	cause_general
Political ads brought about 7 percent of total second-quarter revenue at Gray, which forecast a third-quarter range of $41 million to $45 million for the segment versus $41 million in 2014.	cause_specific
After reporting bumper second-quarter political revenue on Wednesday, Sinclair raised its 2018 target for the segment to $160 million from a range of $140 million to $150 million.	distant_expectations_consequences
Donald Trump is learning to work the presidency.	distant_evaluation
(Tillerson later said the decision was “not a surprise” although its suddenness prompted speculation he wasn’t consulted in advance.)	distant_evaluation
Whether Trump is acting wisely is a matter of division and debate.	distant_evaluation
On North Korea, many foreign policy experts say he is making a mistake by starting with a summit.	distant_evaluation
With tariffs, Trump essentially signaled a trade war with a tweet, again with little of the policy or diplomatic consultations that would normally precede such a step.	distant_evaluation
On gun control, the administration has ensured that Trump’s personal – if controversial – thoughts on arming teachers are a focus of the discussion, and perhaps new legislation.	distant_evaluation
His tax cuts are at the center of U.S. economic policy.	distant_evaluation
Immigration policy remains largely deadlocked, but Trump is unquestionably setting the tone and agenda.	distant_evaluation
It’s unclear how much success Trump will have pushing his views into law.	distant_evaluation
All are intensely polarizing.	distant_evaluation
But then, that may be partly the point.	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump, flanked by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson (L) and Defense Secretary James Mattis, holds a cabinet meeting at the White House, December 20, 2017.	error
Even if he fails to get his way, most of these views can be expected to energize his political base ahead of the November midterm elections – a significant bellwether for his prospects of re-election in 2020.	distant_expectations_consequences
His surprise policy pronouncements also provide temporary distraction from prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probe into allegations that Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, an investigation where the president holds no control – to his clear frustration and fury.	distant_evaluation
That the 45th POTUS is settling into the role should hardly be a surprise – all leaders in all nations go through a similar process, and Trump has never lacked for self-confidence.	distant_evaluation
Still, the administration has become better at managing the initially chaotic and sometimes vicious battles within it.	distant_evaluation
As late as last year, Trump’s Twitter feed and public pronouncements were a hodgepodge, some barely followed up, which often played badly in the media; his May 2017 appearance at a NATO summit in Europe was a particularly unsuccessful example.	distant_historical
More recently, however, he has used Twitter more strategically, often to issue surprise announcements or to shape the political battlefield on issues such as trade and taxes.	distant_evaluation
The administration has also become more disciplined at following such utterances through.	distant_evaluation
That includes forcing others to embrace his “deal-making” persona, as South Korea did unashamedly in presenting him with Kim’s offer of a summit.	distant_evaluation
Friend and foe alike know they must flatter him to progress, even if political constraints and personal taste mean they do not always do so.	distant_evaluation
When he ran his business, Trump was said to operate through a very narrow group, often keeping them in a state of intense and insecure rivalry.	distant_historical
Trump fired Tillerson on March 13, 2018.	error
The main outlet for his need for public attention was his “Apprentice” reality show, with its slogan “You’re Fired” designed around that concept.	distant_historical
The model did not serve the presidency well, as its first months last year demonstrated.	distant_historical
The president is clearly frustrated that he cannot simply dictate whom he has around him.	distant_evaluation
The departure of White House communications director Hope Hicks may be a particular blow.	distant_evaluation
Alongside daughter Ivanka, she was one of only a handful to follow him across from his business empire.	cause_general
The appointment of former U.S. Marine general John Kelly as White House Chief of Staff last year clearly ushered in a more ordered era, although tensions continue amid talk that Kelly and National Security Adviser H.R.	distant_expectations_consequences
McMaster may also leave.	distant_expectations_consequences
By some measures, turnover within the Trump administration – particularly of White House political appointments – has been the highest of any recent presidency.	distant_evaluation
That has often been a reflection of either personal disagreements or embarrassing revelations, such as former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn’s admission that he had lied to the FBI about contacts with the Russian government after Trump’s election.	distant_evaluation
Still, others survived sometimes spectacular spats – replacement Attorney General Jeff Sessions is one example – and for the most part they appear to have exercised autonomy in the running of their departments.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst	error
Tillerson was able to strip back the State Department and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has bolstered the Pentagon by winning support for extra spending	cause_general
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson speaks to the media at the U.S. State Department after being fired by President Donald Trump in Washington.	error
March 13, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Leah Millis	error
Mattis in particular has been allowed to show notable independence – perhaps a sign of the president’s famed respect for military authority.	distant_evaluation
In declaring Mattis its “person of the year,” the Financial Times wrote that one of the few reasons the world could sleep at night was that Trump would have to go through the former Marine if he wished to launch a unilateral strike on North Korea.	distant_expectations_consequences
That may or may not be an accurate judgment.	distant_evaluation
More broadly, though, this year gives the lie to any suggestion that the president is restrained by those about him.	distant_evaluation
The North Korea meeting is the latest in which Trump has used the limited but real capabilities of his office to dictate policy, regardless of protocol and what others might think.	cause_general
He is finding his feet – and no doubt wondering where next to take them.	distant_evaluation
The current U.S. president is like few – if any – other leaders in American history.	distant_evaluation
He reportedly shows little interest in reading briefing documents, spends much of his time on the golf course or watching cable television – all the while disagreeing with the Washington establishment on just about everything.	distant_evaluation
After 14 months in the Oval Office, however, it’s hard to dispute that he is becoming more successful at marrying his idiosyncratic style with the levers of power to get his own way.	distant_evaluation
Tuesday’s ousting of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson suggests Trump’s confidence is still growing – as is his ability to use the power of his office.	main
The two have clearly been at odds for some time, with Tillerson failing to deny reports last year that he had called Trump a “moron.” Trump’s announcement of his plan to replace Tillerson with CIA Director Mike Pompeo comes days after Trump’ decision to tell a South Korean envoy that he was willing to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.	cause_general
JAKARTA (Reuters) - In the Jakarta headquarters of the Indonesian Solidarity Party (PSI), workers call each other “bro” and “sis”, and their leader sets the sartorial standard with a pair of ripped jeans.	cause_general
The United Indonesia Party (Perindo) is headed by U.S. President Donald Trump’s business partner in Indonesia, Hary Tanoeseodibjo, while the Berkaya Party is led by Suharto’s youngest son, Tommy, who advocates a return to the “New Order” values of his late father.	main
PSI leader Grace Natalie, a former television journalist, believes the time has come for a new generation of politicians who would be genuinely accountable to the people.	distant_evaluation
Her party interviews members seeking nomination for a seat in parliament, and live-streams the discussions on social media platforms.	cause_general
Teachers, corporate lawyers, doctors and bankers are among those whose interviews have aired on Facebook and YouTube.	cause_general
“No other party is offering what we are in terms of transparency,” she told Reuters at PSI’s headquarters - referred to by party staff as “base camp” - where a wall poster urges “Make Art, Not War”.	distant_evaluation
CRITICAL DEMOGRAPHIC	cause_general
Natalie, a 35-year-old mother of two toddlers, set up PSI in 2014, determined to offer an alternative for young voters.	distant_historical
It’s a critical demographic with people between the ages of 17 and 25 accounting for about 30 percent of the electorate.	cause_general
Two-thirds of the party’s roughly 400,000 members are under 35.	cause_general
PSI relies on crowdfunding and donations to run operations across the vast archipelago of Indonesia, and to keep costs down it works from members’ houses and uses donated vehicles.	cause_general
The leader of the Indonesian Solidarity Party (PSI), Grace Natalie, poses for a photograph in her office at the party's headquarters in Jakarta, Indonesia March 19, 2018.	error
“This way, no one person can claim that they own the party.	distant_evaluation
Everyone is contributing something,” said Natalie, who was educated in Jakarta and the Netherlands, and speaks proficient English.	distant_evaluation
So far, PSI has raised 2.6 billion rupiah ($180,000), a tiny sum compared to the coffers of mainstream parties that benefit from poor enforcement of laws limiting political donations.	distant_evaluation
It will also struggle to get traction with the youth it is targeting.	distant_expectations_consequences
While the size of the youth vote bank has swelled from 18 percent of total voters in 2004 to 30 percent in 2014, the participation of young voters has dwindled.	cause_general
Data from the elections commission showed less than half of voters between 17 and 29 years old cast a ballot in 2014 legislative elections compared with around 90 percent among those over 30.	distant_historical
Ella Prihatini, a researcher at the University of Western Australia, in a survey of 253 young voters, found many of them were uninterested in politics.	cause_general
“On parliament, the dominant answer from respondents was that their MPs are not actually representing them, so why bother voting?” Prihatini said.	distant_evaluation
POLITICAL ISLAM	distant_evaluation
Winning support is also likely to be particularly challenging for Natalie, an ethnic-Chinese Indonesian, in a climate of religious and ethnic tensions.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Darren Whiteside	error
Indonesia is a secular country but concerns are growing about the Islamisation of politics in the world’s largest Muslim-majority country.	distant_evaluation
Jakarta’s former governor, an ethnic-Chinese Christian, was ousted last year after hardline Muslim groups organized massive protests over allegations he insulted Islam.	distant_historical
He was later jailed for blasphemy.	distant_historical
The 14 parties contesting next year’s polls include the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P), which leads the ruling coalition, several other secular parties as well as rising Islamic-oriented parties.	main
Natalie, who plans to run for parliament next year, conceded she and PSI need a far bigger budget to win support in rural areas, home to nearly half of Indonesia’s population.	distant_evaluation
Her party will back Widodo - a popular moderate reformer - for re-election as president rather than try to field a candidate of its own.	distant_expectations_consequences
Ibrahim Irsyad Hasibuan, a 20-year-old journalism student from Tangerang outside Jakarta, said young voters are apathetic because they have no faith in the political system, and so PSI could be a wake-up call for his generation.	distant_anecdotal
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
“But I can’t relate to PSI,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
“It is a new political party and has no track record yet.”	distant_anecdotal
Dubbed the ‘millennials party’, the PSI is an upstart on the political stage of this Southeast Asian nation that hopes to tap into young voters’ contempt for the entrenched corruption and divisive identity politics of the ruling elite.	cause_general
Achmad Sukarsono, a Singapore-based political analyst for Control Risks, was dismissive of the new party, arguing that an anti-corruption stance alone will not be enough to win over voters more interested in local and bread-and-butter issues.	distant_evaluation
“It is a nice utopian effort that shows desire for change from the educated, Westernized elite,” he said.	distant_evaluation
The downfall of long-serving autocrat Suharto in 1998 - amid a crisis widely blamed on a culture of nepotism and graft - brought an end to a regime of repression.	distant_historical
But two decades later, the 190 million voters of the world’s third-largest democracy are still asked to choose from a crowd of candidates who began their political careers during that period.	cause_general
The 2019 presidential election looks set to be a repeat of 2014, when current leader Joko Widodo narrowly defeated Prabowo Subianto, an ex-armed forces general who was formerly married to a daughter of Suharto.	distant_expectations_consequences
The PSI is one of four new parties the General Election Commission is allowing to contest next year’s legislative and presidential elections.	main
Two of the new parties are fronted by establishment figures.	main
LIMA (Reuters) - Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra challenged the opposition-run Congress on Saturday to call a referendum on judicial and political reforms aimed at uprooting systemic corruption in one of Latin America’s most promising economies.	main
Without backing from lawmakers, Vizcarra would have to collect hundreds of thousands of voters’ signatures.	cause_general
The head of the opposition party, Keiko Fujimori, the daughter of former authoritarian leader Alberto Fujimori, called for reflection.	distant_evaluation
“Let’s remember that only in democracy and with respect for institutionality can we institute true change,” Fujimori said on Facebook.	distant_evaluation
Vizcarra did not propose a date for the referendum.	cause_general
But Peruvians will go to polls later in October to select mayors, governors and other local officials in regional elections.	cause_general
A former vice president and governor of a small mining region, Vizcarra vowed to fight corruption “at any cost” when he took office to replace Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, who resigned the presidency to avoid impeachment on graft and vote-buying allegations he denied.	distant_evaluation
Since then, a second crisis has gripped the nation of 32 million people as local media have published a stream of phone conversations that appear to show judges trading favors with businessmen, lawmakers and the country’s new attorney general.	cause_general
Thousands of Peruvians have taken to the streets in recent weeks to protest systemic graft, with many calling for fresh elections.	distant_evaluation
A majority of Peruvians now disapprove of Congress, the government, the judiciary and prosecutors, according to a recent Ipsos poll.	cause_general
“This crisis has reached a breaking point,” Vizcarra said.	distant_evaluation
Peru's President Martin Vizcarra (2nd R) accompanied by his cabinet walks to the Congress during celebrations of Independence Day in Lima, Peru July 28, 2018.	error
“That’s why, as president of the republic, I’ve decided, with the support of the citizenry, to lead a change long sought by honest Peruvians.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Guadalupe Pardo	error
Vizcarra called for a popular vote not just to fast track judicial reforms, but also to gauge support for a ban on private financing of political campaigns, an end to the reelection of lawmakers and the creation of a second chamber in Congress.	main
The proposal is Vizcarra’s latest attempt to distance himself from a political class widely seen as corrupt, following the resignation of the former president in March and a cronyism scandal that has roiled the justice system in recent weeks.	distant_evaluation
“My government is making a decided bet on strengthening the state as a whole in order to defeat the criminal and corrupt mafias that feed off our country,” Vizcarra said before Congress in his first Independence Day speech since taking office four months ago.	distant_evaluation
“We need the input of all citizens.	distant_evaluation
That’s why we’re convinced that a referendum is healthy for our democracy.”	distant_evaluation
It was unclear if Congress would give the green light needed for the referendum to be called.	cause_general
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Steadfast support for jailed former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Brazil’s poor northeast may give a former governor from the region an edge in the search for the leftist icon’s substitute, three Workers Party officials told Reuters this week.	main
“The party is not evaluating any hypothesis other than Lula’s candidacy,” said a Workers Party spokesman.	distant_evaluation
Wagner and Haddad declined to comment.	cause_general
While Lula, 72, started his political career as a union leader in São Paulo’s industrial belt, his greatest support today is in his native northeast, where his policies contributed to dramatic improvements in social conditions since the turn of the century.	cause_general
Behind bars since April, serving a prison sentence for his bribery conviction, Lula has insisted he will run in October.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yet the party insiders said the reality is setting in that his candidacy may soon be struck down by the electoral court.	distant_expectations_consequences
“His priority today is more Jaques.	distant_evaluation
Not to deny Haddad’s merits, but Wagner has more political experience and, being from the northeast, he could start out with considerably more voter support,” said one of the party officials.	distant_evaluation
The 67-year-old Wagner, whose parents were Jewish immigrants from Poland, is a founding member of Lula’s Workers Party and was Rousseff’s defense minister before her 2016 impeachment for breaking budget rules.	distant_historical
Wagner is under investigation for allegedly taking bribes in the building of the World Cup soccer stadium in Bahia’s capital of Salvador during his time as governor from 2007 to 2015.	cause_general
He has denied any wrongdoing.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: Former Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva speaks at his book launch event in Sao Paulo, Brazil March 16, 2018.	error
Haddad, 55, of Lebanese Christian descent, lost his 2016 bid for re-election to São Paulo’s city hall in a stunning first-round defeat to rising conservative star João Doria, who is now running for governor of São Paulo state.	cause_general
Haddad’s relative youth and distance from the major corruption scandals roiling Brazilian politics bolstered expectations that he could be the most likely stand-in for Lula.	distant_expectations_consequences
Still, his resounding 2016 defeat and lack of a connection with the party’s northeastern base has raised concerns.	distant_evaluation
Wagner was slapped down by party leaders earlier this year for proposing that they find a candidate outside their ranks to avoid disaster in the October general election.	distant_historical
He has since insisted that Lula should run.	cause_general
One of the sources said Wagner may now give in to inside pressure to be the party’s candidate.	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker/File Photo	error
Jaques Wagner, a former governor of Bahia state and a minister under Lula and his successor Dilma Rousseff, is gaining ground and could displace former São Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad as the party’s likely presidential candidate in the October election, the sources said.	main
They requested anonymity to speak freely about internal deliberations.	cause_general
The evolving debate in the Workers Party suggests that Lula, the most influential Brazilian politician of the past two decades, and allies may be coming around to the idea of transferring his support rather than having him mount his own campaign from jail.	main
Lula, whose eight years in office saw millions of Brazilians lifted from poverty, is still Brazil’s most popular politician despite several corruption indictments and a conviction that will most likely bar him from running.	cause_general
Lula’s spokesman Jose Crispiniano denied that the Workers Party was moving on.	distant_evaluation
“Ex-president Lula da Silva is the candidate and there is no discussion of a substitute,” he said.	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House struggled on Wednesday to contain a political outcry and confusion over U.S. President Donald Trump’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, denying Trump ever meant to say that Moscow was no longer targeting the United States.	main
Related Coverage Putin warns that U.S.-Russia nuclear treaty will expire unless action taken	distant_expectations_consequences
The U.S. president said that in his talks with Putin, he was “very strong on the fact that we can’t have meddling, we can’t have any of that.” But Trump also appeared to question whether such statements would have an impact on Russia.	distant_evaluation
“We’re also living in a grown-up world,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Sanders explanation of Trump’s “No” was the second time since Monday’s summit that Trump and the White House have blamed a misstatement or misunderstanding for the furor over Russia.	cause_general
On Tuesday, Trump said he misspoke at a Helsinki news conference with Putin and that he accepted intelligence agency conclusions about Russian election meddling, although he hedged by deviating from his prepared notes to say “it could be other people also.	distant_evaluation
There’s a lot of people out there.”	distant_evaluation
Trump stunned the world on Monday by shying away from criticizing the Russian leader for Moscow’s actions to undermine the election, sparking bipartisan fury at home and prompting calls by some U.S. lawmakers for tougher sanctions and other actions to punish Russia.	cause_specific
Critics have accused Trump of siding with Russia over his own country by failing to criticize Moscow for what U.S. intelligence agencies last year described as Russia’s election interference in an attempt to sow discord, aid Trump’s candidacy and disparage Trump’s Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton.	distant_evaluation
Putin has denied the allegations.	distant_evaluation
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and President Donald Trump listen during a cabinet meeting at the White House in Washington, U.S., July 18, 2018.	error
Trump, facing uproar over his failure to confront Putin over Russia’s 2016 U.S. election meddling, adopted his usual defiant posture two days after their Helsinki summit and called his critics deranged.	cause_specific
REUTERS/Leah Millis	error
‘DOING VERY WELL’	distant_evaluation
“We’re doing very well, probably as well as anybody has ever done with Russia.	distant_evaluation
And there’s been no president ever as tough as I have been on Russia,” Trump said before the Cabinet meeting, adding that Putin “understands it and he’s not happy about it.”	distant_evaluation
In a series of early morning Twitter posts, the Republican president said the summit would eventually produce “big results” and accused his critics of “Trump Derangement Syndrome.”	distant_expectations_consequences
“Some people HATE the fact that I got along well with President Putin of Russia.	distant_evaluation
They would rather go to war than see this.	distant_evaluation
It’s called Trump Derangement Syndrome!” the president wrote.	distant_evaluation
U.S. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats told a congressional committee in February he already had seen evidence Russia was targeting November’s elections when Republican control of the House of Representatives and Senate is at stake.	distant_historical
In rebutting Trump’s dismissive comments about U.S. intelligence on Monday, Coats said, “We have been clear in our assessments of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and their ongoing, pervasive efforts to undermine our democracy.”	distant_evaluation
Asked by a journalist before a morning Cabinet meeting whether Russia was still targeting the United States, Trump looked at the reporter, shook his head and said, “No.”	cause_specific
Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer said Trump needed to wake up to Russia’s efforts to interfere in American elections.	distant_evaluation
“We won’t be able, as a nation, to fight back against foreign interference in our elections if the Commander in Chief doesn’t even acknowledge that it’s a real problem,” Schumer said in a statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republican Senator John McCain accused Trump of “playing right into Putin’s hands” with the president’s comments in a Fox News interview on Tuesday that appeared to question the American commitment to defend all NATO allies.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (9 Images)	error
Asked why Americans should defend NATO member Montenegro from attack, Trump said, “I’ve asked the same question.	distant_evaluation
Montenegro is a tiny country with very strong people.	distant_evaluation
...	distant_evaluation
They are very aggressive people, they may get aggressive, and congratulations, you are in World War Three.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Montenegro joined NATO last year in defiance of Moscow after accusing Russian spies of orchestrating an attempted coup to derail the accession.	distant_historical
In his morning tweets, Trump said he elicited a promise from Putin during their meeting to help negotiations with North Korea, but did not say how.	distant_evaluation
At a later briefing, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said the president was saying “no” to answering questions, not to the question itself.	distant_evaluation
Trump met North Korea’s Kim Jong Un in June and has since received a letter from Kim expressing hope for “practical actions” in the future as the United States seeking Pyongyang’s denuclearization.	cause_general
Russia’s RIA news agency, citing Moscow’s envoy to Pyongyang, reported that a summit between the leaders of Russia and North Korea is “on the agenda” and that it would be “logical” to raise the idea of lifting sanctions.	cause_general
U.S. intelligence officials have said Russia’s efforts to undermine elections are continuing and now target the Nov. 6 congressional races.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sanders said Trump believes the threat from Russia to undermine those elections still exists.	distant_evaluation
Asked later in an interview with CBS News whether he held Putin personally responsible for meddling in the 2016 election, Trump said he did.	distant_evaluation
“Well, I would, because he’s in charge of the country.	distant_evaluation
Just like I consider myself to be responsible for things that happen in this country,” he said.	distant_evaluation
BERLIN (Reuters) - A leader of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party has poured cold water on plans by Steve Bannon, U.S. President Donald Trump’s former political strategist, to forge a wide populist alliance to undermine the European Union.	main
Former AfD leader Frauke Petry had always wanted to work with France’s National Front, but that had not worked out.	cause_general
Raheem Kassam, a spokesman for The Movement, said of Gauland’s comments: “The Movement is a clearing house of ideas, not a campaigning organization that would seek to have anything to do with AFD’s national policy or election campaigns.	distant_evaluation
We are content that senior AFD figures understand the project and are in touch with us every day.	distant_evaluation
We look forward to working alongside those who want to do so, for the causes we all believe in.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Gauland told Funke Mediengruppe that his party was polling at 17 to 20 percent in recent surveys, and its support could grow beyond that as long as Chancellor Angela Merkel remained in power.	distant_expectations_consequences
The party won 12.6 percent of the vote in national elections last September, making it the third largest party and catapulting it into the German parliament for the first time.	distant_historical
Gauland said the AfD needed to become stronger, but he expected it to be ready to take on a governing role in the medium-term.	distant_expectations_consequences
Political experts say the party could become the strongest party in the eastern German states of Saxony and Brandenburg in regional elections next year, raising the question of whether mainstream parties will reverse course and agree to form coalitions with it.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon speaks during a campaign rally for Republican candidate for U.S. Senate Judge Roy Moore in Midland City, Alabama, U.S., December 11, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Jonathan Bachman/File Photo	error
“We’re not in America,” Alexander Gauland, one of two co-leaders of the anti-immigrant party, told the Funke Mediengruppe newspaper chain in an interview published on Saturday.	distant_evaluation
“The interests of the anti-establishment parties in Europe are quite divergent,” he added in comments that amounted to a blunt rebuff to Bannon from one of Europe’s most influential far-right parties.	distant_evaluation
The former Trump strategist last month announced he had created a Brussels-based political organization called The Movement to rally nationalist and populist voters in European Parliament elections next May, with a goal of undermining and paralysing the bloc.	cause_specific
But Gauland said that while his co-leader Alice Weidel had met once with Bannon, he saw no possibility of cooperating with him.	main
“Mr Bannon will not succeed in forging an alliance of the like-minded for the European elections.”	main
He said the AfD only had close contacts with Austria’s far-right Freedom Party (FPO), junior party in Austria’s coalition government.	cause_general
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Cleric Moqtada al-Sadr and Iranian-backed militia chief Hadi al-Amiri’s decision to choose compromise over confrontation and strike an alliance, aiming to form the next Iraqi government, has eased tensions after elections marred by fraud allegations.	main
“If he (Sadr) insisted on fighting everyone at the same time he would be outmaneuvered, and the pressure of a re-run of the elections was too much,” said a Western diplomat in Baghdad.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tehran, which has thrived amid Iraqi Shi’ite rivalries in the past by acting as a broker, has its own motivations.	distant_evaluation
Sadr’s alliance with Amiri, announced in the holy Shi’ite city of Najaf to project a sense of unity, gives Tehran more leverage over the formation of Iraq’s next government.	distant_expectations_consequences
FEELING THE HEAT	distant_evaluation
Amiri, who spent two decades fighting Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein from Iran and speaks Farsi fluently, is one of the most powerful figures in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
His Badr Organisation controls the interior ministry and he played a decisive role in the battle against Islamic State.	cause_general
“Amiri had the momentum behind him especially in this election, this is an opportunity for him,” said Hassan Hassan, senior fellow at the Tahrir Institute for Middle East Policy.	distant_evaluation
“He is fresh off the field, very popular in some circles.”	distant_evaluation
Amiri is close to Major General Qassem Soleimani, commander of foreign operations for Iran’s Revolutionary Guards who has great influence in Iraq.	cause_general
Soleimani was in Iraq this week, a second Western diplomat in Baghdad said, adding that it is likely that he advised Amiri to ally with Sadr, who recently met Iran’s ambassador.	distant_evaluation
Leader of the Conquest Coalition and the Iran-backed Shi'ite militia Badr Organisation Hadi al-Amiri speaks during a news conference with Iraqi Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr (not pictured), in Najaf, Iraq June 12, 2018.	error
The Iranians have decided they must accept Sadr, the diplomat said, and he will have in turn realized he must work with Amiri to safeguard his victory.	distant_evaluation
Shunning Amiri could make life difficult for Sadr.	distant_expectations_consequences
His foe, former Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, is still in the picture despite being forced out of office and widely blamed for Islamic State’s seizure of a third of Iraq.	distant_evaluation
In 2008, Maliki ordered a crackdown on forces loyal to Sadr in the Shi’ite heartland.	distant_historical
According to the first diplomat who recently met Sadr, he felt pressured and feared his victory was going to vanish.	distant_expectations_consequences
Acting on what Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said were widespread violations, a parliament stacked with lawmakers who failed to retain their seats mandated a nationwide recount.	distant_evaluation
Some politicians said the election should be repeated.	distant_evaluation
MIDDLE GROUND	distant_evaluation
Abadi seemed to lose the most out of the alliance, diplomats and analysts said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Even though he has balanced the interests of Iran and the United States, who compete for influence in Iraq, his bloc has yet to join any coalition.	cause_general
REUTERS/Alaa al-Marjani	error
He may yet win a second term as a compromise candidate, albeit as a much weaker premier, beholden to Sadr and Amiri.	distant_expectations_consequences
Iran does not seem worried about the uncertainty but is under growing pressure to preserve its interests in the Middle East especially in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump pulled out of a nuclear deal with Tehran then engaged nuclear state North Korea, increasing Tehran’s isolation.	cause_general
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
In Yemen, Houthi forces aligned with Iran face the biggest offensive from a Saudi-led coalition in the three-year conflict, part of a regional proxy war between Riyadh and Tehran.	cause_general
“There is a certain element of pragmatism in Iran on foreign policy,” said Renad Mansour, research fellow at Chatham House in London.	distant_evaluation
“Iran does not want Iraq to collapse but it also does not want Iraq to be too strong.	distant_evaluation
They want a middle ground.”	distant_evaluation
Even if Sadr’s deal with Amiri succeeds, he may have to contend with grievances from members of his own bloc who insist Tehran would not be allowed to interfere in Iraqi affairs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sadr’s bloc scored a stunning victory in the May 12 parliamentary election by tapping growing public discontent with neighboring Iran’s sway in Iraq and promising to deliver what past governments have not: jobs, better services and stability.	cause_specific
But beneath the surface there were fears that regional power Tehran, which before the vote said it would never let Sadr govern, would sabotage the mercurial cleric and set the stage for a showdown that could turn bloody.	cause_general
In the end, an alliance has emerged of strange bed-fellows: Sadr who portrays himself as a nationalist and Amiri, Iran’s most powerful ally in Iraq whose grouping came second.	main
Their choice of pragmatism has lowered the risk of violence among Iraq’s Shi’ite majority after a costly conflict war with the Sunni Muslim militants of Islamic State.	distant_expectations_consequences
Sadr is treading cautiously, aware that Iran has manipulated Iraqi politics in its favor in the past and of Tehran’s vast sway in its most important Arab ally.	cause_general
In a 2010 election, Vice President Ayad Allawi’s bloc won the most seats but he was prevented from becoming prime minister, blaming Iranian maneuvering.	distant_historical
PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Former Cambodian opposition leader Sam Rainsy has filed a legal case in the United States to get Facebook to release information on Prime Minister Hun Sen’s use of the social media platform, his legal team said.	main
Hun Sen, 65, has been criticized by Western countries over a ban on the main opposition party and the arrest of its leader less than a year away from a general election on July 29.	distant_evaluation
Paris-based Sam Rainsy sought “critical information in Facebook’s possession regarding Hun Sen’s misuse of social media to deceive Cambodia’s electorate and to commit human rights abuses,” according to the statement.	main
“The petition raises fundamental questions about how Facebook should deal with human rights abusers who manipulate elections,” said Sam Rainsy’s attorney, Richard J. Rogers, of rights group Global Diligence LLP.	distant_evaluation
Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the case, which Sam Rainsy’s lawyers said had been brought in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.	cause_general
Hun Sen’s Facebook profile was private, the Cambodian government spokesman added.	distant_evaluation
“The Facebook profile of the Samdech Prime Minister is private, it’s not a terrorist group to cause any insecurity with any country,” said Phay Siphan, using the official title for Hun Sen, who has ruled Cambodia for more than 33 years.	distant_evaluation
Facebook, which has more than 2 billion users globally, tells advertisers they have the potential to reach 6.6 million people in Cambodia, from a population of nearly 16 million.	distant_expectations_consequences
It says more than 5.5 million people have expressed an interest in, or liked, pages related to Hun Sen, of whom 1.8 million are in Cambodia.	cause_general
Comparable figures for Sam Rainsy are 2.2 million people expressing an interest, with 1.7 million within Cambodia.	cause_general
FILE PHOTO: A 3D-printed Facebook logo is seen in front of a displayed stock graph in this illustration taken November 3, 2016.	error
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo	error
Lawyers for Sam Rainsy, who fled Cambodia in 2015 to escape a conviction for defamation he says was politically motivated, said he sought the information to help him in his own legal cases in Cambodia.	distant_expectations_consequences
Supporters of Hun Sen have built a strong presence on Facebook.	cause_general
Sam Rainsy wants information on allegations of “false likes” on Hun Sen’s Facebook account, accusations that the platform had been used to make death threats and the use of state money for advertisements, his legal team said in a statement on Wednesday.	main
Government spokesman Phay Siphan said the lawsuit was “not useful”.	distant_evaluation
The case highlights the growing global nature of the challenge to Facebook Inc over its role in political debate after accusations that social media was used for meddling in votes in Britain, the United States and elsewhere.	distant_evaluation
Facebook has become an ever more important platform for political news in Cambodia as some media outlets critical of Hun Sen have been forced to shut.	cause_general
Baan Saladin, Thailand (Reuters) - Thai junta leader Prayuth Chan-ocha rowed a boat across a pond dotted with lotus leaves, planted some rice stalks in a field and turned to villagers who had come to meet him in Baan Saladin village in central Thailand.	cause_general
ANTI-JUNTA PROTESTS	cause_general
In Bangkok, young, middle-class Thais, have led a series of anti-junta protests, including one on Feb. 24 at Thammasat University - which Thai troops stormed in 1976, killing dozens of students in an earlier coup.	cause_general
Than Rittiphan, a member of the New Democracy Movement, which has helped to organize the protests, said the movement is mainly aimed at holding a general election sooner.	distant_evaluation
The movement transcends the red-yellow divide in Thai politics and “has actually spread into a conflict between generations and values”, he said.	distant_evaluation
The students say they are pushing for a Thai meritocracy to replace what they see as corruption and nepotism in the system.	distant_evaluation
The latest protests are too small to be a factor in any election timing, said Kan Yuenyong, a political analyst and executive director of the Siam Intelligence Unit think-tank told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“But they do increase public awareness about the vote.	distant_evaluation
“The underlying politics of Thailand is still about class – the upper, middle and the working class.	distant_evaluation
People try to say that we’ve moved on from color politics but we haven’t,” Kan said.	distant_evaluation
New King Maha Vajiralongkorn is contributing to some of the political uncertainty.	cause_general
A pro-democracy protester wearing a mask mocking Thailand's Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwan performs in a protest in Bangkok, Thailand, February 6, 2018.	error
The king, who’s been married three times and lives much of his time in Germany, has moved quickly to consolidate power since taking the throne in December 2016, following the death of his father, the much beloved Bhumibol Adulyadej.	cause_general
He made changes to the Privy Council, which advises the monarchy, and has made appointments himself, taking some of the control away from the military.	cause_general
He made his own amendments to the military-drafted constitution and gained control of the Crown Property Bureau, which runs the more than $30 billion assets of the monarchy.	cause_general
The king has yet to set a date for his official coronation and some analysts think an election would not be held before then.	distant_expectations_consequences
RED-YELLOW DIVIDE	cause_general
The junta’s four-year moratorium on politics was aimed at stamping out the intransigent red-yellow divide in Thai politics.	distant_evaluation
The “yellow shirts” tended to support the Democrat Party, popular with middle-class voters with strong support in Bangkok and the Muslim-dominated south.	cause_general
The “red shirt” movement of ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and his sister, Yingluck appealed to poorer voters, particularly in the populous northeast.	cause_general
It has won every election in Thailand over the past two decades.	cause_general
Yingluck herself was overthrown by Prayuth in the 2014 coup and last year fled Thailand before the verdict in a corruption trial – eliminating a charismatic party figurehead who might also have rallied opposition to Prayuth.	distant_historical
Picture taken February 6, 2018.	error
Although he cannot stand for election, the constitution offers a way for Prayuth to continue serving as prime minister.	cause_general
According to the constitution, both houses of parliament can consider an alternative candidate as prime minister if the 500-member lower house fails to approve a nominee for the post.	cause_general
The candidate would need majority support from both houses - all 250 senators in the upper house are appointed by the junta.	cause_general
Prayuth told reporters on Tuesday he had not been approached by any political party to be its candidate for the prime minister role.	distant_evaluation
“It is not time yet.	distant_evaluation
Nobody has contacted me so don’t use this issue to attack me.	distant_evaluation
Give me time to work,” Prayuth said in reply to a question about whether he had been approached.	distant_evaluation
Outside the legislature, Prayuth appears to have some support already.	cause_general
Representatives of 114 political groups met this month with the election panel, with many pledging support for Prayuth as prime minister.	cause_general
Slideshow (3 Images)	error
REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha	error
The two main parties, however, the Democrat Party and the Thaksin-allied Puea Thai Party, have openly criticized Prayuth’s election postponements and will field their own candidates for the prime minister job.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The military wants to ensure that it can convince political parties to support it and that’s why it needs more time,” said a senior government aide, referring to the repeated postponements of the election.	distant_evaluation
Thaksin and his sister Yingluck held meetings in Hong Kong and Singapore last month with members of his party, prompting some to comment that he was readying Puea Thai for an election.	distant_evaluation
Speaking of an oft-delayed general election, the 63-year-old Prayuth, who led a 2014 coup that ousted the last elected government, simply said: “Elect a good person.”	distant_evaluation
Prayuth was in Nakhon Pathom province last month not to campaign for an election, but to roll out his “Long-lasting Thainess” plan, which involves sending soldiers and social workers to meet with people across Thailand to listen to their problems.	cause_general
But the “Thainess” undertaking is widely seen as the unofficial launch of Prayuth’s own campaign to stay on as prime minister.	distant_evaluation
Prayuth had promised to hold an election in November, but said last week the vote would take place “no later” than February 2019.	main
“Those in the government and the junta ... think that the situation in the country is still unsettled,” said a government minister, speaking on condition of anonymity, about the series of election delays.	distant_anecdotal
MANCHESTER, N.H. (Reuters) - Enthusiasm for the Democratic Party is waning among millennials as its candidates head into the crucial midterm congressional elections, according to the Reuters/Ipsos national opinion poll.	main
But he will consider a Republican for Congress because he believes the party is making it easier to find jobs and he applauds the recent Republican-led tax cut.	distant_anecdotal
“It sounds strange to me to say this about the Republicans, but they’re helping with even the small things,” Hood said in a phone interview.	distant_anecdotal
“They’re taking less taxes out of my paycheck.	distant_anecdotal
I notice that.”	distant_anecdotal
The Reuters/Ipsos poll surveyed young voters during the first three months of this year and the same period in 2016.	cause_specific
Only 28 percent of those polled expressed overt support for Republicans in the 2018 poll - about the same percentage as two years earlier.	cause_specific
But that does not mean the rest will turn out to back Democrats, the survey showed.	cause_specific
A growing share of voters between ages 18 and 34 years old said they were undecided, would support a third-party candidate or not vote at all.	cause_specific
The shift away from Democrats was more pronounced among white millennials - who accounted for two-thirds of all votes cast in that age group in 2016.	distant_evaluation
Two years ago, young white people favored Democrats over Republicans for Congress by a margin of 47 to 33 percent; that gap vanished by this year, with 39 percent supporting each party.	distant_anecdotal
The online survey of more than 16,000 registered voters ages 18 to 34 shows their support for Democrats over Republicans for Congress slipped by about 9 percentage points over the past two years, to 46 percent overall.	main
The shift was especially dramatic among young white men, who two years ago favored Democrats but now say they favor Republicans over Democrats by a margin of 46 to 37 percent, the Reuters/Ipsos poll showed.	cause_specific
Ashley Reed, a white single mother of three in New Hampshire, said a teenage fascination with Democrat Barack Obama led her to support his presidency in 2008.	distant_anecdotal
But her politics evolved with her personal life.	distant_anecdotal
Reed, now 28, grew more supportive of gun rights, for instance, while married to her now ex-husband, a U.S. Navy technician.	distant_anecdotal
She lost faith in social welfare programs she came to believe were misused.	distant_anecdotal
She opposed abortion after having children.	distant_anecdotal
Reed plans to vote for a Republican for Congress this year.	distant_anecdotal
“As I got older, I felt that I could be my own voice,” she said last month in Concord, New Hampshire.	distant_anecdotal
Mindi Messmer, Democratic candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in New Hampshire's First Congressional District, speaks to a UNH College Democrats meeting at the University of New Hampshire in Durham, New Hampshire, U.S., March 28, 2018.	error
Picture taken March 28, 2018.	error
And they increasingly say the Republican Party is a better steward of the economy.	main
REUTERS/Brian Snyder	error
A SWING DISTRICT	distant_evaluation
Down the road from where Reed lives lies New Hampshire’s 1st Congressional District, a hiker’s paradise of evergreen thickets and snow-capped lakes where young white voters make up about a quarter of the electorate, compared to 21 percent nationally.	cause_general
The district’s House seat has changed parties five times in seven election cycles and is up for grabs this year after the Democratic incumbent declined to seek re-election.	cause_general
New Hampshire’s Democrats have an early edge in voter enthusiasm after a string of victories in races for state legislative seats, said Christopher Galdieri, a politics professor at Saint Anselm College in Manchester.	distant_evaluation
At a campaign event at the University of New Hampshire in Durham, Mindi Messmer, one of eight Democrats running in the primary election, touted her work as an environmental crusader.	distant_evaluation
But students in the crowd also raised many other issues, notably the local economy.	distant_evaluation
“People come to school here, and then they move away because they can’t get jobs,” said Acadia Spear, 18, of Portsmouth.	distant_anecdotal
Spear said she would likely vote for a Democrat, but her peers nationally are increasingly looking to Republicans for economic leadership, according to the Reuters/Ipsos poll.	distant_anecdotal
Millennials are almost evenly split this year over the question of which party has a better plan for the economy, with 34 percent picking the Democrats and 32 percent choosing Republicans.	main
Although nearly two of three young voters polled said they do not like Republican President Donald Trump, their distaste for him does not necessarily extend to all Republicans or translate directly into votes for Democratic congressional candidates.	cause_specific
That’s a shift from two years ago, when they said Democrats had the better plan by a 12-point margin.	distant_historical
In Manchester, the biggest city in New Hampshire’s 1st District, tattoo artist Ashley Matthias, 31, said she has not decided how she will vote but will support anyone who will make her health insurance more affordable.	distant_anecdotal
As she drilled an eagle in black ink across a client’s shoulder blades, Matthias explained that it is cheaper to pay for her doctor’s visits out-of-pocket than to buy insurance through the government-run Obamacare exchange.	distant_anecdotal
“You just hope nothing happens to you,” she said.	distant_anecdotal
BATTLE FOR THE YOUTH VOTE	distant_evaluation
After the bruising loss in the presidential election of 2016, the Democratic Party learned it needed to reach young voters on their turf, including on social media and at college campuses, said Elizabeth Renda, who specializes in reaching young voters for the Democratic National Committee.	distant_historical
“Instead of having real conversations with them, we settled for TV ads,” Renda said of the 2016 failure.	distant_historical
Earlier this year, the DNC launched its “IWillVote” initiative, aimed in part at registering millennials to vote.	cause_general
The party also will run ads via social media and text, and it plans to send buses to college campuses on election day to bring students to the polls.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Democratic National Committee declined to comment on the Reuters poll.	cause_general
That presents a potential problem for Democrats who have come to count on millennials as a core constituency - and will need all the loyalty they can get to achieve a net gain of 23 seats to capture control of the U.S. House of Representatives in November.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republican National Committee spokeswoman Cassie Smedile said the poll indicates that young voters “like what they’ve seen” from the party in power.	distant_evaluation
The Republican committee plans to target young voters in part through a pilot program to get out the vote at six college campuses, Smedile said.	distant_expectations_consequences
In New Hampshire, Eddie Edwards, one of two Republicans running for Congress in the 1st District, said he pitches millennials on ways the government should help college graduates pay off their student loans.	distant_evaluation
He also argues that public secondary schools must better prepare students to find jobs without attending college.	distant_evaluation
“This is a generation that has much more access to information than others,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“Unless you’re addressing those issues that are important to them, it’s hard to get them involved.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States.	cause_specific
It gathered about 65,000 responses in all during the first three months of 2018 and 2016, including 16,000 registered voters between the ages of 18 and 34 and nearly 11,000 registered white millennial voters.	cause_specific
Slideshow (25 Images)	error
The poll has a credibility interval of 1 percentage point, meaning that results may vary by about 1 percentage point in either direction.	cause_general
Young voters represent an opportunity and a risk for both parties, said Donald Green, a political science professor at Columbia University in New York City.	distant_evaluation
For graphic on Democrats losing millenial voters, click: tmsnrt.rs/2I1YafW	error
“They’re not as wedded to one party,” Green said.	distant_evaluation
“They’re easier to convince than, say, your 50- or 60-year-olds who don’t really change their minds very often.”	distant_evaluation
Terry Hood, 34, an African-American who works at a Dollar General store in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and took this year’s poll, said he voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election.	distant_anecdotal
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s political and business leaders were quick to chalk up last week’s summit with U.S. President Donald Trump as a victory for Vladimir Putin.	distant_evaluation
“The threat of wider sanctions has grown,” the businessman told Reuters, declining to be named because of the subject’s sensitivity.	distant_anecdotal
Russian business people had hoped the Helsinki meeting, the first between the two presidents, would pave the way for a possible thaw in relations and delay, if not stop, the preparation of more sanctions which have followed thick and fast since Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea.	distant_evaluation
Instead, anger about what some U.S. lawmakers saw as a too-deferential performance by Trump in Helsinki and his failure to publicly confront Putin over Moscow’s alleged meddling in U.S. politics may have made things worse.	distant_evaluation
In a country where state media portrays Putin as a seemingly infallible leader, even some of his supporters were fretting that he may have made an error by appearing to demonstrably take Trump’s side.	distant_evaluation
In Helsinki, Putin said for the first time that he had wanted Trump to win the 2016 U.S. presidential election and after the summit complained about political forces in the United States trying to undermine the meeting’s outcome.	distant_evaluation
Sergei Markov, a longtime Putin supporter and former lawmaker for the ruling United Russia party, wrote on social media after the summit that the Russian president had outplayed Trump in Helsinki “by a big margin”, but added:	distant_evaluation
“...	distant_expectations_consequences
In doing so he created a problem because he exposed his partner to fierce criticism in the United States.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Putin should have given Trump the chance to tell U.S. media that he had extracted concessions from him in a “giveaway game”, staying focused on the longer-term goal of stabilizing ties between Moscow and Washington, Markov said on his Facebook page.	distant_evaluation
‘SELLING RUSSIA’	distant_anecdotal
Now some fear Putin may have overplayed a winning hand and are bracing for a U.S. sanctions backlash.	distant_evaluation
Instead, Putin appeared dominant while Trump was deemed by U.S. critics as overly friendly to Russia and possibly even treasonous when he gave credence to Putin’s denials of meddling in the 2016 election despite U.S. intelligence findings to the contrary.	distant_evaluation
Many Republicans joined Democrats in criticizing Trump’s performance.	distant_evaluation
With an eye on U.S. mid-term elections in November, a bipartisan group of senators is pushing the “DETER Act” legislation putting Putin on notice that his country would be hit with more U.S. sanctions if Russia interferes in future polls.	main
It was unclear how quickly that and other proposals could advance with U.S. Congress’ summer recess looming.	distant_evaluation
But the business and financial community in Russia is still worried.	distant_evaluation
“The only outcome of this so far is that people are selling Russia,” said one state banker.	distant_anecdotal
“All liquid (Russian) securities are now hostage to geopolitics, which strongly depend on what goes on in the United States.”	distant_anecdotal
Mitigating that risk would be tricky, business people said.	distant_evaluation
“You can’t keep your assets in roubles because the rouble is linked to the dollar and if there will be more sanctions the rouble will suffer,” said one businessman, asking not to be named because he didn’t want to be linked with sanctions risk.	distant_anecdotal
“You can’t hold them in dollars because of sanctions.	distant_anecdotal
FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump and Russia's President Vladimir Putin shake hands as they meet in Helsinki, Finland July 16, 2018.	error
That leaves holding euros in private banks which is frightening (because Russian private banks can be unstable), U.S. Treasuries if you can get them, and other low risk assets,” he said.	distant_anecdotal
“In short, nobody is expecting anything good to happen.”	distant_anecdotal
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
Dmitri Trenin, a former colonel in the Russian army and director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, agreed it might have been better for Putin to have adopted an approach of “strategic patience” with the United States, but said it was not too late.	distant_evaluation
“The first détente in the hybrid war between Russia and the West was ... nipped in the bud by Trump’s behavior and the vehemence of his domestic critics.	distant_evaluation
So be it,” Trenin wrote in an article published on the center’s website after the summit.	distant_evaluation
“Moscow’s strategy should now be one of patience, leaving America and Europe to their own devices and focusing on relations with countries far more relevant to its future: Asia and the Middle East.”	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque/File Photo	error
The rouble fell 1.2 percent on Tuesday after two U.S. senators said in a statement they had begun working on new sanctions that would, among other things, take aim at Russian sovereign debt.	main
It later recovered most of its losses.	cause_general
While the sanctions proposed by Republican Lindsey Graham and Democrat Bob Menendez were seen by most political risk analysts as unlikely in the near term, new curbs contemplated by other U.S. lawmakers targeting the energy and metals sectors are more realistic, they say.	distant_expectations_consequences
“There was hope that dialogue would start after the talks between Putin and Trump.	distant_evaluation
But the reaction inside the United States is blocking any dialogue,” said one billionaire included in January on a U.S. Treasury list of people deemed too close to the Kremlin, some of whom were later hit with sanctions.	cause_general
(This version of the April 21 story corrects headline to June from November)	error
Despite the criticism, Trump briefly considered making Romney his Secretary of State.	distant_historical
Romney said in February that he generally approves of Trump’s agenda, but would call out the president if needed.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
“I’m with the president’s domestic policy agenda of low taxes, low regulation, smaller government, pushing back against the bureaucrats,” Romney said.	distant_evaluation
“I’m not always with the president on what he might say or do, and if that happens I’ll call them like I see them, the way I have in the past.”	distant_evaluation
Romney was criticized by some delegates for being a latecomer to the state, moving to Utah relatively recently, CNN reported.	distant_evaluation
Romney’s campaign could not be reached for comment early Sunday.	cause_general
By Rich McKay	error
(Reuters) - Mitt Romney’s restart of his political career hit a roadblock Saturday.	cause_general
The 2012 Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts governor failed to win the Utah Republican Party’s nomination, which means he must face 11 challengers in a June primary for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by retiring U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch.	main
Romney needed at least 60 percent of the votes from delegates at the Utah GOP convention Saturday to head to the November election unopposed, but he earned only 49.12 percent, CNN and other media reported.	cause_specific
Romney was considered the political favorite by political observers and U.S. President Donald Trump endorsed Romney in February.	distant_evaluation
The president said on Twitter in February that Romney “will make a great Senator and worthy successor to @OrrinHatch, and has my full support and endorsement!”	distant_evaluation
But Romney and the president have not always been political allies.	cause_general
Romney excoriated Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign and said he was a “fraud” who was “playing the American public for suckers.” Trump responded that Romney had “choked like a dog” in his 2012 campaign against President Barack Obama.	distant_historical
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.	main
Bush and Jimmy Carter - paid tribute to McCain’s courage and character.	cause_general
Cindy McCain said her husband had “passed the way he lived, on his own terms, surrounded by the people he loved, in the place he loved best.”	distant_evaluation
McCain will lie in state in the Arizona Capitol on Wednesday and in the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Friday.	distant_expectations_consequences
There will be a memorial service at the Washington National Cathedral on Saturday, with U.S. and international leaders invited to attend, and McCain will then be buried in a private ceremony at the U.S.	distant_expectations_consequences
Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, on Sunday.	distant_expectations_consequences
AFFABLE, CANTANKEROUS	distant_evaluation
McCain’s death brings to 50 the number of Republican-held seats in the 100-member U.S. Senate, with Democrats controlling 49.	main_consequence
Republican Arizona Governor Doug Ducey will appoint a member of his own party to succeed McCain after the funeral.	main_consequence
That could also give Republicans a slight edge in the battle to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court because McCain had been too ill to vote this year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Alternatively affable and cantankerous, McCain had been in the public eye since the 1960s when, as a naval aviator, he was shot down during the Vietnam War and tortured by his North Vietnamese Communist captors.	distant_evaluation
Senator John McCain, a former prisoner of war in Vietnam who ran for president in 2008 as a maverick Republican and became a prominent critic of President Donald Trump, died on Saturday.	main
He was edged out by George W. Bush for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000 but became his party’s White House candidate eight years later.	distant_historical
After gambling on political neophyte Sarah Palin as his running mate, McCain lost to Obama, who became the first black U.S. president.	distant_historical
Obama said in a statement that he and McCain, despite their different backgrounds and political views, shared a belief in American ideals.	distant_evaluation
“We saw our political battles, even, as a privilege, something noble, an opportunity to serve as stewards of those high ideals at home, and to advance them around the world,” Obama wrote.	distant_evaluation
McCain, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was a frequent critic and target of his fellow Republican Trump, who was elected president in November 2016.	distant_evaluation
McCain denounced Trump for, among other things, his praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin and other leaders the senator described as foreign “tyrants.”	distant_evaluation
“Flattery secures his friendship, criticism his enmity,” McCain said of Trump in his memoir, “The Restless Wave,” which was released in May.	distant_historical
McCain castigated Trump in July for his summit with Putin, calling their joint news conference in Helsinki “one of the most disgraceful performances by an American president in memory.”	distant_evaluation
Defense Secretary James Mattis saluted McCain as a figure who “always put service to the nation before self.”	distant_evaluation
In Germany, whose government has clashed with Trump over a range of issues including trade and defense, Chancellor Angela Merkel said: “John McCain was guided by the firm conviction that the value of all political work could be found in serving freedom, democracy and the rule of law.”	distant_evaluation
He was 81.	cause_general
French President Emmanuel Macron called McCain “a true American hero (whose) ... voice will be missed” and British Prime Minister Theresa May said he “embodied the idea of service over self.”	distant_evaluation
THUMBS-DOWN	distant_historical
McCain, a traditionally Republican foreign policy hawk, was admired in both parties for championing civility and compromise during an era of acrid partisanship in U.S. politics.	distant_evaluation
But he also had a famous temper and rarely shied away from a fight, including several with Trump.	distant_evaluation
He was the central figure in one of the most dramatic congressional moments in Trump’s presidency when he returned to Washington shortly after his brain cancer diagnosis for a middle-of-the-night vote in July 2017.	distant_historical
Still bearing a black eye and scar from surgery, McCain gave a thumbs-down signal in a vote to scuttle a Trump-backed bill that would have repealed the Obamacare healthcare law and increased the number of Americans without health insurance by millions.	distant_historical
Trump was furious about McCain’s vote and frequently referred to it at rallies.	distant_historical
After Trump launched his presidential campaign in 2015, McCain condemned his hardline rhetoric on illegal immigration and said Trump had “fired up the crazies.” Trump retorted that McCain was “not a war hero,” adding: “I like people who weren’t captured.”	distant_historical
FILE PHOTO - Republican presidential hopeful John McCain points to his head during his Carolina kickoff rally at Presbyterian College February 2, 2000.	error
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque/File Photo	error
A senator from Arizona for more than three decades, McCain had been suffering from brain cancer since July 2017 and had not been at the U.S. Capitol this year.	cause_general
After Trump became president, McCain blasted what he called the president’s attempts to undermine the free press and rule of law and lamented the “half-baked, spurious nationalism” of the Trump era.	distant_evaluation
MCCAIN VERSUS OBAMA	distant_historical
McCain, the son and grandson of U.S. Navy admirals, was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982 after more than two decades of Navy service.	distant_historical
Arizona next elected him to the U.S. Senate in 1986 to replace Barry Goldwater, the 1964 Republican presidential nominee revered by conservatives.	distant_historical
In running for president in 2008, McCain tried to succeed fellow Republican Bush at time when the United States was mired in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and stuck in a financial crisis.	distant_historical
It was a stark contrast between McCain, then a 72-year-old veteran of Washington, and the 47-year-old Obama, who was offering a “Yes, we can” message of change.	distant_historical
McCain tried to inject some youth into his campaign with his selection of Palin, Alaska’s governor, as his running mate.	distant_historical
But her political inexperience and shaky interview performances raised concerns about her qualifications.	distant_historical
McCain voiced regret in his new memoir for not choosing then-Senator Joe Lieberman, a Democrat turned independent, as his running mate.	distant_evaluation
WAR INJURIES	distant_historical
He died on Saturday afternoon at his ranch in Arizona with his wife, Cindy, and other family members at his bedside.	main
McCain flew attack planes off aircraft carriers during the Vietnam War.	distant_historical
In October 1967, his A-4 Skyhawk was shot down on a bombing mission over North Vietnam’s capital and he suffered two broken arms and a broken leg.	distant_historical
A mob dragged him from a lake, broke his shoulder and stabbed him.	distant_historical
Held at the notorious “Hanoi Hilton” prison and other sites, McCain was beaten and tortured, suffering broken bones and dysentery.	distant_historical
He was released on March 14, 1973, but left with permanent infirmities.	distant_historical
Several U.S. citizens living in Vietnam adorned a monument erected at the site of the plane crash with flowers on Sunday in tribute.	cause_general
“Not only did Senator McCain actively contribute to Vietnam-U.S. ties, he was a friend of Vietnam who won huge love from Vietnamese people at many levels,” Vietnam’s ambassador to the United States, Ha Kim Ngoc, told the state-run Voice of Vietnam radio service.	distant_evaluation
In Congress, McCain prided himself on his history of working across party lines on immigration, climate change and campaign finance reform.	distant_evaluation
He supported Bush’s 2003 invasion of Iraq but also spoke out against the Bush administration’s use of waterboarding, a type of simulated drowning widely considered torture, and other extreme interrogation tactics in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.	distant_historical
McCain was born on Aug. 29, 1936, at an American naval installation in the Panama Canal Zone - U.S. territory at the time - where his father was stationed.	distant_historical
McCain frequently battled with Trump and his family has said he did not want the president to attend his funeral.	cause_general
Slideshow (18 Images)	error
McCain divorced his wife Carol after 15 years of marriage in 1980 and weeks later married the then Cindy Henley, daughter of a wealthy beer distributor in Arizona.	distant_historical
A dark period for McCain came as one of the “Keating Five” group of senators accused of improperly intervening with federal regulators to help political contributor and bank executive Charles Keating, whose Lincoln Savings and Loan failed in 1989, costing taxpayers $3.4 billion.	distant_historical
McCain was cleared of wrongdoing in 1991 but the Senate Ethics Committee rebuked him for poor judgment.	distant_historical
On July 25, 2017, McCain delivered a Senate floor speech not long after his cancer diagnosis that was widely seen as his farewell address.	distant_historical
It called on fellow Republicans to stand up to Trump and for all lawmakers to work together to keep America as a “beacon of liberty” in the world.	distant_historical
Flags flew at half-staff at the White House on Sunday.	cause_general
Trump has tweeted his “deepest sympathies and respect” to McCain’s family, although he added no words of praise for McCain himself	distant_evaluation
All five living former presidents - Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W.	cause_general
LIMA (Reuters) - Until this week, Martin Vizcarra led a quiet life as Peru’s ambassador to Canada, overseeing the two nations’ friendly relations from Ottawa, the Canadian capital.	cause_general
Marchese credits Vizcarra with defusing opposition that threatened to derail the company’s $3.3 billion proposed mine, Quellaveco.	distant_evaluation
After 20 months of negotiations led by Vizcarra, the company and community leaders reached a deal that modified the project’s water-use plan.	distant_historical
But Vizcarra now faces a much taller task.	distant_evaluation
Kuczynski’s epic battle with the opposition-controlled Congress and the far-reaching graft scandal over Odebrecht - a Brazilian builder that admitted to bribing officials in Peru for a decade - has sparked demands for new elections to purge a political class widely seen as corrupt.	cause_general
“IN TOUCH WITH REALITY”	cause_general
Vizcarra was in Quebec at a meet-and-greet with Peruvian expatriates on Wednesday when he heard that Kuczynski had resigned in the face of near-certain impeachment, a source close to Vizcarra said.	cause_general
He arrived in Lima after police fired tear gas at protesters marching against the political establishment.	cause_general
Vizcarra’s biggest asset might be his low profile.	distant_evaluation
He started to distance himself from the government last year as Kuczynski came under fire from the rightwing opposition party that controls Congress.	distant_historical
Unlike Kuczynski, a Princeton-trained former Wall Street banker, Vizcarra tends to watch the Sunday night news shows that often set the week’s agenda in Peru and is a more shrewd politician than he appears, the source said.	distant_evaluation
Martin Vizcarra speaks after being sworn in as Peru's President at the congress building in Lima, Peru, March 23, 2018.	error
In September, Vizcarra left Peru, choosing to be ambassador to low-key Canada instead of the United States to learn more about mining in the developed world, the source said.	distant_historical
“I don’t know much about him,” Anderson Vasquez, a Lima office worker said.	distant_evaluation
“But I’m hoping for the best.	distant_expectations_consequences
Peru looks bad to the rest of the world, and we need to get on with things.”	distant_evaluation
Kuczynski had promised to modernize Peru by the end of his scheduled term in 2021.	distant_expectations_consequences
Instead, bombshell revelations that he had financial ties with Odebrecht - despite repeated denials - put him in the opposition’s crosshairs.	distant_evaluation
Vice President Martin Vizcarra is sworn in as Peru's President at the congress building in Lima, Peru, March 23, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Mariana Bazo	error
Kuczynski and Vizcarra share little in common.	distant_evaluation
The two teamed up to launch an unlikely 2016 presidential ticket that combined Kuczynski’s experience in international finance with Vizcarra’s appeal as a Lima outsider.	distant_historical
REUTERS/Mariana Bazo	error
But where Kuczynski is prone to gaffes and name dropping, Vizcarra’s more modest style may be welcome in a country used to more formality from its leaders.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Vizcarra’s sensible and in touch with the reality of the country.	distant_evaluation
That’s the big difference” with Kuczynski, said Peruvian political analyst Diethell Columbus.	distant_evaluation
But Vizcarra also happened to be Peru’s first vice president, and he will now swap stately dinners with diplomats for the scorched earth of Peru’s presidency, after Pedro Pablo Kuczynski resigned this week under the pressure of graft allegations.	main
Vizcarra, 55, was sworn in as president of the Andean nation of 32 million people on Friday, promising to fight corruption “at any cost” and calling on lawmakers to end the acrimonious disputes that accompanied Kuczynski’s downfall in one of region’s most stable economies.	main
A tall and lanky civil engineer married to a schoolteacher, Vizcarra plunged into politics after seeing his native Moquegua, a small mining region in southern Peru, languish under corrupt local leaders and neglect from policymakers in Lima, the capital.	distant_historical
Inspired by his father, a local mayor, Vizcarra became governor of Moquegua in 2011 and made a name for himself as a good listener and level-headed leader in conflict-prone Peru, the world’s No.	distant_historical
2 copper producer.	distant_historical
“He makes decisions when he has to make them, and reflects a lot before doing so,” said Luis Marchese, the Peru manager for Anglo American Plc.	distant_evaluation
MANILA (Reuters) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte thinks political dynasties are bad.	distant_evaluation
The two women posed together for pictures last week, each with one hand doing Duterte’s trademark clenched fist, and making a “V” sign synonymous with the rule of Marcos with the other.	error
(For a graphic on 'Philippine First Daughters' click tmsnrt.rs/2KV4KT7)	error
Rodrigo Duterte’s rise has been a boon for the Marcos family.	distant_evaluation
Imee Marcos frequently attends his official events and in 2016, Duterte granted her longstanding wish for her father to be buried with military honors at a Manila heroes’ cemetery.	distant_historical
Duterte also said last week that if he steps down, her brother, Ferdinand Marcos Jr, a former senator better known as “Bongbong”, would have been a capable replacement for him.	distant_expectations_consequences
Marcos Jr came a close second to Leni Robredo, a rival of Duterte, in the 2016 vice presidential election, but he has challenged the result in the Supreme Court.	distant_historical
“NEW CENTER OF GRAVITY”	distant_expectations_consequences
Richard Heydarian, an author, columnist and academic who specializes in politics, said the Marcos family wanted to stay relevant nationally and in a political culture where loyalties easily shift, Sara Duterte was now widely seen as a figure worth rallying behind.	distant_expectations_consequences
Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte-Carpio (L) and Ilocos Norte Governor Imee Marcos gestures during an alliance meeting with local political parties in Paranaque, Metro Manila in Philippines, August 13, 2018.	error
Picture taken August 13, 2018.	error
But the way the prevailing political winds are blowing, it looks like a dynasty of his own might be taking shape.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Czeasar Dancel	error
“People around (Rodrigo) Duterte are looking for a new center of gravity.	distant_evaluation
They see signs of an exhausted president and see there could be some kind of succession that can protect their interests,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“He has a very shallow network of politicians, he’s not at his peak.	distant_evaluation
He just has to hold on as long as he can.”	distant_evaluation
Duterte acknowledges that, and on Tuesday said he can’t resign because a constitutional succession would mean handing power to opposition leader and vice president Robredo, who was elected separately.	distant_expectations_consequences
He said Robredo isn’t up to the job - which she refutes - and he’d prefer a junta takes over.	distant_evaluation
Duterte’s relationship with daughter Sara has however often appeared rocky and she has portrayed herself as his reluctant successor as mayor of Davao City.	distant_evaluation
Like her father, she is feared and respected, and known for being blunt, unpredictable and for openly trading barbs with the president.	distant_evaluation
Despite that, few doubt her loyalty to him.	distant_evaluation
Nine months away from mid-term elections that could determine the success or failure of his presidency, his daughter, Sara Duterte, is fast emerging as a power-broker who is aiming to shore up support for his ambitious policy agenda, and, say some experts and insiders, his eventual succession.	main
Although she denies being interested, she and other Duterte allies, including his spokesman, his special assistant and his former police chief, are tipped to run for the 24-seat Senate in 2019, as is Imee Marcos.	main
That could be a game-changer for the president, who has built a strong majority in the House of Representatives but needs control of the upper house to deliver on his promises.	distant_expectations_consequences
Among a raft of plans, he wants to redraft the constitution and deliver his centerpiece economic policy, a $180 billion infrastructure spree designed to modernize the country, spur spending, create jobs and lure investment.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Now is the chance to further consolidate power by controlling both houses of congress and the local government units so all of us can we move forward in cadence,” said a member of a nine-party alliance formed by Sara Duterte last week.	distant_evaluation
He requested anonymity, saying only Sara Duterte could speak about the alliance.	cause_general
“The goal is, fill the Senate with people who can help ... We don’t want people who will only obstruct his plans.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Opposition lawmaker Antonio Tinio said Rodrigo Duterte was essentially a local politician thrust into the presidency and needed national level allies.	distant_evaluation
“Hence, his alliance with the Marcoses and Gloria Arroyo,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Tinio is skeptical about Duterte’s talk of retirement and is among many opponents who suspect he’ll try to continue beyond his permitted single six-year term - an idea Duterte this week said was idiotic.	distant_expectations_consequences
Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte-Carpio (L) and Ilocos Norte Governor Imee Marcos hold a document during an alliance meeting with local political parties in Paranaque, Metro Manila in Philippines, August 13, 2018.	error
By his own admission, the 73-year-old president is flagging.	distant_evaluation
Picture taken August 13, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Czeasar Dancel	error
Plan B, Tinio said, was his daughter succeeding him.	distant_expectations_consequences
“If efforts to extend the term of President Duterte through charter change fail, it’s very likely that the Dutertes’ Davao formula for dynastic succession will prevail,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Tuesday, he lamented his uphill struggle to tackle illicit drugs and cut state corruption, predicting that he’ll “hardly make a dent” in his remaining four years in office.	distant_expectations_consequences
During a ceremony and again at a dinner afterwards, he said he was tired, exasperated and thinking about quitting, and ended his somber, one hour, 20 minute speech with: “I’m telling you, I’m ready to step down and retire.”	distant_evaluation
That contrasts sharply from his 40-year-old daughter, who has started maneuvering to build alliances and expand her small party in the southern Davao region into a new political juggernaut, as fissures appear in her father’s ruling PDP-Laban party.	cause_general
She was instrumental in bringing together political factions to stage a dramatic July 23 ousting of divisive Duterte ally Pantaleon Alvarez as lower house speaker, replacing him with veteran Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, 71, a former president with clout and connections to ensure support for Duterte and his agenda.	cause_general
The move was helped by a relationship developing between Sara Duterte and Imee Marcos, 62, a provincial governor and key figure in the still influential family of late dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who ruled the Philippines for two decades before being ousted in a 1986 uprising.	cause_general
VIENNA (Reuters) - Austria’s right-wing government plans to shut seven mosques and could expel dozens of imams in what it said was “just the beginning” of a push against radical Islam and foreign funding of religious groups that Turkey condemned as racist.	main
A government handout put the number at 40, of whom 11 were under review and two had already received a negative ruling.	cause_general
Slideshow (2 Images)	error
ATIB spokesman Yasar Ersoy acknowledged that its imams were paid by Diyanet, the Turkish state religious authority, but it was trying to change that.	distant_evaluation
“We are currently working on having imams be paid from funds within the country,” he told ORF radio.	distant_evaluation
One organization that runs a mosque in Vienna and is influenced by the “Grey Wolves”, a Turkish nationalist youth group, will be shut down for operating illegally, as will an Arab Muslim group that runs at least six mosques, the government said in a statement.	main
The coalition government, an alliance of conservatives and the far right, came to power soon after Europe’s migration crisis on promises to prevent another influx and restrict benefits for new immigrants and refugees.	distant_historical
The moves follow a “law on Islam”, passed in 2015, which banned foreign funding of religious groups and created a duty for Muslim organizations to have “a positive fundamental view towards (Austria’s) state and society”.	distant_historical
“Political Islam’s parallel societies and radicalizing tendencies have no place in our country,” said Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who, in a previous job as minister in charge of integration, steered the Islam bill into law.	distant_evaluation
Standing next to him and two other cabinet members on Friday, far-right Vice Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache told a news conference: “This is just the beginning.”	distant_evaluation
Austria, a country of 8.8 million people, has roughly 600,000 Muslim inhabitants, most of whom are Turkish or have families of Turkish origin.	cause_general
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan’s spokesman said the new policy was part of an “Islamophobic, racist and discriminatory wave” in Austria.	distant_evaluation
“The Austrian government’s ideologically charged practices are in violation of universal legal principles, social integration policies, minority rights and the ethics of co-existence,” Ibrahim Kalin tweeted.	distant_evaluation
The ministers at the news conference said up to 60 imams belonging to the Turkish-Islamic Union for Cultural and Social Cooperation in Austria (ATIB), a Muslim group close to the Turkish government, could be expelled from the country or have visas denied on the grounds of receiving foreign funding.	main
PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Cambodia released 14 government critics on Tuesday, in a move by Prime Minister Hun Sen that some observers say is aimed at appeasing foreign criticism of a flawed general election last month.	main
Hun Sen has requested pardons for 23 people since Aug. 17.	cause_general
Sebastian Strangio, author of the book “Hun Sen’s Cambodia”, said the pardons served a dual function of easing domestic political tensions and presenting Western critics with some marginal signs of democratic progress.	distant_evaluation
“This does not signify any substantial change in Hun Sen’s mentality,” Strangio told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
“If the CPP faces a serious challenge before the next election, history suggests that Hun Sen will do whatever he needs to do in order to maintain his hold on power,” he added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Government spokesman Phay Siphan said that the recent pardons were a “humanitarian” act by Hun Sen and not a response to international criticism.	distant_evaluation
Members of the dissolved opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP), pose for a picture after they were released from jail by King Norodom Sihamoni's pardon in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, August 28, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Samrang Pring	error
The 14, who are all members or supporters of Cambodia’s now dissolved main opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP), were released from Phnom Penh’s Prey Sar prison.	main
They were convicted in 2014 of insurrection after they forcibly tried to reopen the country’s only designated protest venue, “Freedom Park”, in July that year and were handed jail terms ranging from seven to 20 years.	distant_historical
The convictions were widely criticized as politically motivated.	distant_evaluation
“We have been waiting a long time to see Cambodians really reconcile as a nation with democratic principles and respect for human rights,” Meach Sovannara, one of the 14, told reporters after police dropped him off at his home in Phnom Penh.	distant_evaluation
Hun Sen’s Cambodian People’s Party (CPP) swept all parliamentary seats in last month’s largely unopposed election.	cause_general
But rights groups said the July 29 vote was neither free nor fair given the absence of a significant challenger to Hun Sen, who has ruled Cambodia for 33 years.	distant_evaluation
BANGKOK (Reuters) - When Thailand’s army took power in a bloodless coup four years ago, it promised to bring happiness back to the “Land of Smiles” and return the country to democratic rule within two years.	distant_evaluation
But in recent months the military government itself has been the subject of a protest in the northern city of Chiang Mai against the building of a government luxury housing project on forested land, the largest gathering since the junta took over.	cause_specific
It is also being investigated by the country’s anti-graft agency over a suspected misappropriation of around 129 million baht ($4 million) from a state fund for the poor.	cause_specific
“They announced they came into power to fix corruption and over the past four years have proved that they can’t,” said Yingcheep.	distant_evaluation
Transparency International’s 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index gave Thailand a score of 37 out of 100, slightly lower than in 2014 when the military took over.	distant_historical
But others think the military has done what it set out to do.	distant_evaluation
Mana Nimitmongkol, secretary-general of the Anti-Corruption Organization of Thailand, an independent body which monitors state corruption, told Reuters the military government has “done more to battle corruption than any other government in Thai history”.	distant_evaluation
PUBLIC DISCONTENT	distant_evaluation
However, delays to the general election have fueled a resurgence in anti-government street protests that have taken place intermittently since the start of the year.	cause_specific
Somchai Srisutthiyakorn, a former election commissioner, said an upcoming parliamentary decision on whether to adopt one of four bills that need to be in place for the vote to happen could be delayed.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The earliest we could see an election is March 2019, the latest would be June 2019,” Somchai told Reuters.	distant_expectations_consequences
FILE PHOTO: Thailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha gestures during a news conference after a weekly cabinet meeting at Government House in Bangkok, Thailand, January 9, 2018.	error
Deputy Prime Minister Prachin Chanthong told Reuters the junta means to make good on its promises.	distant_evaluation
“We want to see this country peaceful and united and have a better standard of living and higher income for everyone ... but it takes time,” said Prachin.	distant_evaluation
The Pheu Thai Party, whose government was ousted in the 2014 coup, said the junta had spent the last four years trying to extend its hold over Thai politics by strengthening the judiciary, the civil service, and independent organizations while weakening political parties and civil society.	distant_evaluation
“The NCPO has used its authority to maintain and extend power for themselves and their friends for as long as possible,” the party said in a statement on Thursday.	distant_evaluation
It rejected an invitation from the junta to join a meeting in June between the military government and political parties aimed at working out ground rules for the general election.	cause_general
Although the junta has repeatedly promised to “return happiness to the Thai people”, some disgruntled Thais say they have run out of patience.	distant_evaluation
Recent protests have mostly been led by young activists, but others have been spearheaded by groups representing farmers and the urban poor.	cause_specific
“The junta came in, shut the people out, did everything their way.	distant_evaluation
So we can’t say we’re happy,” Prayong Doklamyai, a coordinator for People’s Movement for Just Society (P-Move), told Reuters.	distant_evaluation
Decharut Sukkhumnoed, an agricultural economist and lecturer at Bangkok’s Kasetsart University, said the agricultural sector, which accounts for around 8 percent of the economy, has been particularly hard-hit by the junta’s policies, which have prioritized other sectors.	distant_evaluation
REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha/FIle Photo	error
Since 2014, rice and rubber farmers’ groups have threatened to stage protests, demanding the government improve farmers’ livelihoods.	cause_general
The junta has since promised with billions of dollars in loans to help stabilize agricultural prices and offered cash handouts – leading critics to say it has employed tactics akin to the populist policies of the government it ousted.	distant_evaluation
According to the National Statistics Office, the bottom 45 percent of Thai population with the lowest income earned less per capita in 2017 than in 2015.	distant_historical
Slideshow (13 Images)	error
While Thailand saw its GDP growth rise from 1 percent in 2014 to 3.9 percent in 2017, the agricultural sector saw negative GDP growth for ten quarters straight from 2014 to 2016, due to a decline in global commodity prices and weather woes, before recovering to a 6.2 percent growth in 2017.	distant_historical
Still, analysts say popular dissatisfaction is unlikely to dislodge the junta.	distant_expectations_consequences
Leaders of the main, red-shirted opposition group told Reuters this month they were weary of more bloodshed if they take to the streets.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The military still has the situation under control,” said Yutthaporn Isarachai, a political scientist at Sukhothai Thammathirat University.	distant_evaluation
The military said the coup was needed to stop further violence after months of street protests and to stamp out corruption which had plagued Thailand for decades.	distant_evaluation
But as the coup’s fourth anniversary approaches on May 22, the ruling junta, or National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), is facing a public perception crisis, according to international and domestic polls which say corruption is as endemic as ever.	main
The government has also repeatedly delayed the general election, with the latest date set for February 2019.	cause_specific
Some analysts say the date could be pushed back again.	distant_expectations_consequences
When it first came to power, the NCPO vowed to tackle everything from so-called ‘taxi mafias’ to the illicit logging of forests.	distant_evaluation
Its military-backed parliament has passed 298 laws since 2014 and the junta has issued more than 500 orders, according to the National Legislative Assembly, making “huge changes to the legal system,” said Yingcheep Atchanont, a program manager at iLaw, a Thai legal monitoring group.	distant_evaluation
BERLIN (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - In the light-flooded reception of a community center in east Berlin, Syrians - whose first language is Arabic - practised German, their conversation occasionally punctuated by laughter as they stumbled over a word or mixed up languages.	cause_general
And I like how we are sitting and speaking German together.”	distant_anecdotal
With an influx of more than 1.6 million asylum seekers into Germany since 2014, mainly from the Middle East and Africa, integration is a hot political issue for Chancellor Angela Merkel whose conservatives have lost ground to the far-right.	distant_evaluation
Hundreds of people have created organizations to help newcomers settle in and build ties, with efforts ranging from sports clubs and music groups that include migrants to recruitment agencies specializing in finding refugees work.	cause_specific
The government has provided grants since 2015 to social enterprises working to help refugees get jobs and integrate.	cause_general
While some have taken off, others have struggled to find ways to use business, not charity, to solve social problems.	distant_evaluation
PREJUDICES	distant_historical
Petra Becker started Back on Track Syria in a refugee shelter in 2016, with Syrian teachers she recruited via Facebook giving lessons to 200 children, before moving to two of the city’s cultural centers.	distant_historical
Becker realized that young Syrians needed extra coaching after she struggled to get her own children into Berlin schools when her family returned from Damascus in 2012, where she had been working in the German embassy.	distant_historical
“Lots of headmasters whom I talked to, to get them into German school, had prejudices about the Syrian school system - they didn’t trust that they had enough knowledge to cope with school here,” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	distant_evaluation
“That made me wonder what happened to the children who didn’t speak German.”	distant_evaluation
Moro Alali, a teacher with Back on Track Syria, at the Kiespinne Community Centre, Berlin, June 21 2018 Lee Mannion/Thomson Reuters Foundation	error
But Back on Track Syria runs on a shoestring budget, with scant government funding and no fees from parents.	main
Although Becker received business advice from a social enterprise accelerator, she still spends half of her time fundraising.	cause_general
“Whenever we do workshops ... they tell us to take money from the parents, but they don’t have money,” she said.	distant_evaluation
“And if we did, they wouldn’t send their children anymore.”	distant_evaluation
She hopes to win a government contract to pay her bilingual volunteers to provide refugee children with the extra support they need to catch up with the curriculum and improve their German within ordinary schools.	distant_expectations_consequences
But the government is keen to rein in welfare costs as public anger toward migrants helped propel The Alternative for Germany (AfD) into parliament last year - the first far-right group to win seats in more than half a century.	main
Germany expects to spend around 78 billion euros ($91 billion) on migration-related issues through 2022, with social payments accounting for about 21 billion euros and 13 billion to be spent on language courses and other integrative measures.	distant_expectations_consequences
Social enterprises struggle to win government contracts, which have traditionally gone to about half a dozen welfare organizations, because many people do not understand what they are, said Markus Sauerhammer, an advocate for the sector.	distant_evaluation
“A lot of them are between business and welfare organizations - they are a hybrid of both,” said Sauerhammer, who set up the Social Entrepreneurship Network Germany in September, to help start ups grow into successful businesses.	distant_evaluation
“It’s not so easy to find the right way to finance them.”	distant_evaluation
While they learned, their children were given extra tuition by Back on Track Syria, a social business that helps young refugees and asylum seekers settle in German schools after losing years of education to war.	cause_general
About 250 organizations have already joined his network, including Ashoka, a U.S.-headquartered pioneer in the field, and the Social Impact Lab, which mentors and trains social entrepreneurs.	cause_general
Katrin Buschmann and Petra Backer of Back on Track Syria at the Kiespinne Community Centre, Berlin, June 21 2018 Lee Mannion/Thomson Reuters Foundation	error
Reliable financing would enable Becker to help more children like 13-year-old Masa Zughbi, who left Idlib, a northern Syrian city close to the Turkish border, in 2013, after it was seized by groups opposed to President Bashar al-Assad.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I can’t learn in Syria - it’s better for me here,” said Zughbi, who, like many girls her age, struggled to resist the pull of her smartphone as she spoke.	distant_anecdotal
“When I came to school here it was difficult because I couldn’t speak German well and now I am the best in my class in Maths and English.	distant_anecdotal
This was because Back on Track helped me.”	distant_anecdotal
“I was very afraid for my children.	distant_anecdotal
My daughter was going to school and every day bombs were falling down,” said Shereen Sido Resho from Aleppo, whose two children are being taught by the organization.	distant_anecdotal
She has been in Germany for two years.	distant_anecdotal
“The children come here and they are playing.	distant_anecdotal
They have new friends.	distant_anecdotal
It’s not only about the teaching.	distant_anecdotal
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump demanded on Twitter on Sunday that the Justice Department look into whether his 2016 presidential campaign was infiltrated or surveilled by the agency or the FBI under the Obama administration.	main
Giuliani was quoted by the New York Times later on Sunday as saying that Mueller had said the investigation would wrap up by Sept. 1.	distant_expectations_consequences
A source familiar with the probe called the Sept. 1 deadline “entirely made-up” and “another apparent effort to pressure the special counsel to hasten the end of his work.”	distant_anecdotal
Related Coverage U.S. Justice Department asks watchdog to check for political motivations in FBI Russia probe	cause_general
“He’ll wrap it up when he thinks he’s turned over every rock, and when that is will depend on how cooperative witnesses, persons of interest and maybe even some targets are, if any of those emerge, and on what new evidence he finds, not on some arbitrary, first-of-the-month deadline one of the president’s attorneys cooks up,” said the source, a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity.	distant_anecdotal
UNSUBSTANTIATED ASSERTIONS	distant_evaluation
In September, the Justice Department said it had no evidence to support another of Trump’s unsubstantiated assertions: that Obama had ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower during the 2016 presidential campaign.	distant_historical
It was unclear what kind of response Trump was seeking from the Justice Department this time, since investigations are kept secret and designed to be insulated from political influence and White House meddling.	distant_evaluation
A spokeswoman said the Justice Department had asked the Inspector General to expand a review of the process for requesting surveillance warrants to include determining whether there was impropriety or political motivation in how the FBI conducted its investigation.	main_consequence
Representative Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee, called Trump’s suspicion of an embedded spy “nonsense.” “His ‘demand’ DOJ investigate something they know to be untrue is an abuse of power, and an effort to distract from his growing legal problems,” Schiff said on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
In his earlier tweets on Sunday, Trump reprised his attacks on Hillary Clinton, his Democratic challenger in 2016, and maintained that Democrats were not submitted to the same FBI scrutiny.	distant_evaluation
Trump’s simmering anger over Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s year-old Russia probe appeared to spill over into a series of well-worn recriminations in several tweets, including that the investigation was politically motivated and had its roots in the administration of his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama.	distant_evaluation
Trump also implied that the special counsel investigation of whether foreign governments tried to influence the presidential campaign was designed to hurt Republicans in the November congressional elections.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump gestures as he delivers remarks during the Prison Reform Summit at the White House in Washington, DC, U.S., May 18, 2018.	error
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque/File Photo	error
“Now that the Witch Hunt has given up on Russia and is looking at the rest of the World, they should easily be able to take it into the Mid-Term Elections where they can put some hurt on the Republican Party,” he wrote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trump, who has long complained the Russia probe has overstepped its bounds, referred to reports that his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., met in August 2016 with an envoy representing the crown princes of United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.	distant_evaluation
The New York Times reported on Saturday the meetings were an indication that other countries besides Russia may have offered help to Trump’s presidential campaign.	distant_evaluation
Federal investigators are looking into whether Russia tried to sway the election and if it worked with the Trump campaign to do so.	cause_specific
Trump has denied any collusion and repeatedly dismissed the investigation as a “witch hunt.”	distant_evaluation
“I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration!” Trump wrote on Twitter.	main
Trump also escalated his attacks on the Justice Department on Friday, suggesting that the FBI may have planted or recruited an informant in his 2016 presidential campaign.	distant_evaluation
He cited unidentified reports that at least one FBI representative was “implanted” for political purposes into his campaign.	distant_evaluation
Neither Trump nor Rudy Giuliani, a former New York mayor who is now one of Trump’s lawyers, provided any evidence of government infiltration into Trump’s presidential campaign.	cause_general
Giuliani acknowledged in a CNN interview on Friday that neither he nor the president really knew if such action took place.	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administration told lawmakers the U.S. government has reached a deal to put Chinese telecommunications company ZTE Corp back in business after it pays a significant fine and makes management changes, a senior congressional aide said on Friday.	main
ZTE, which is publicly traded but whose largest shareholder is a Chinese state-owned enterprise, agreed last year to pay a nearly $900 million penalty and open its books to a U.S. monitor.	distant_historical
The penalty stemmed from for breaking an agreement after it was caught illegally shipping U.S. goods to Iran and North Korea, in an investigation dating to the Obama administration.	distant_historical
The company has lost over $3 billion since the April 15th ban on doing business with U.S. suppliers, according to a source familiar with the matter.	cause_specific
Trump on Tuesday floated a plan to fine ZTE up to $1.3 billion and shake up its management as his administration considered rolling back more severe penalties that have crippled the company.	cause_specific
Responding to news of the administration’s deal with ZTE, Republican Senator Marco Rubio tweeted: “Yes they have a deal in mind.	distant_evaluation
It is a great deal ... for #ZTE & China.	distant_evaluation
#China crushes U.S. companies with no mercy & they use these telecom companies to spy & steal from us.”	distant_evaluation
Rubio, as well as Democratic Senators Chuck Schumer and Chris Van Hollen, said Congress should act to stop Trump from letting ZTE get back into business.	distant_evaluation
“If the administration goes through with this reported deal, President Trump would be helping make China great again,” Schumer said Friday on Twitter.	distant_evaluation
“Would be a huge victory for President Xi, and a dramatic retreat by Pres Trump.	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump appeared to confirm the deal in a tweet late on Friday.	cause_general
Both parties in Congress should come together to stop this deal in its tracks.”	distant_evaluation
U.S. intelligence and U.S. law enforcement agencies have serious concerns that ZTE and other Chinese telecommunications firms use their equipment to gather intelligence on U.S. citizens.	distant_evaluation
The U.S. Department of Defense has also stopped selling ZTE’s mobile phones and modems in stores on its military bases, citing potential security risks.	cause_specific
William Evanina, the acting director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, said at his May 15 confirmation hearing that he would not use a ZTE phone nor recommend that anyone in a sensitive position in government use one.	distant_evaluation
Chinese officials sought a pullback on ZTE as part of any broader deal to prevent a trade war between the world’s two biggest economies.	distant_evaluation
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross is scheduled to visit China next week for another round of talks.	cause_general
White House legislative director Marc Short told PBS Friday that Ross “would be making that announcement in the coming day” of a resolution of the ZTE issue.	distant_expectations_consequences
ZTE needs U.S. components for its mobile phones and network equipment.	cause_specific
U.S. companies provide an estimated 25 percent to 30 percent of components in ZTE’s equipment.	cause_specific
FILE PHOTO - Visitors pass in front of the Chinese telecoms equipment group ZTE Corp booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, February 26, 2018.	error
“I closed it down then let it reopen with high level security guarantees, change of management and board, must purchase U.S. parts and pay a $1.3 Billion fine.”	distant_expectations_consequences
REUTERS/Yves Herman/File Picture	error
As part of the agreements ZTE made last year it dismissed four senior employees.	distant_historical
Shares of ZTE’s U.S. suppliers traded higher on Friday.	cause_general
Optical networking equipment maker Acacia Communications Inc, which got 30 percent of 2017 revenue from ZTE, rose 4.4 percent.	cause_general
Optical component company Oclaro Inc, which received 18 percent of its fiscal 2017 revenue from ZTE, rose 2.7 percent.	cause_general
Reuters reported earlier this week citing sources that a proposed trade deal with China would lift the ZTE ban.	distant_evaluation
In return, China would eliminate tariffs on U.S. agriculture or agree to buy more farm products from the United States.	distant_evaluation
The reported deal involving China’s second-largest telecommunications equipment maker ran into immediate resistance in Congress, where Democrats and Trump’s fellow Republicans accused him of bending to pressure from Beijing to ease up on a company that U.S. intelligence officials have suggested poses a significant risk to U.S. national security.	distant_evaluation
ZTE was banned in April from buying U.S. technology components for seven years for breaking an agreement reached after it violated U.S. sanctions against Iran and North Korea.. After ZTE makes a series of changes it would now be allowed to resume business with U.S. companies, including chipmaker Qualcomm Inc.	cause_specific
The deal, earlier communicated to officials on Capitol Hill by the Commerce Department, requires ZTE to pay a substantial fine, place U.S. compliance officers at the company and change its management team, the aide said.	main
The Commerce Department would then lift an order issued in April preventing ZTE from buying U.S. products.	distant_expectations_consequences
ZTE shut down most of its production after the ruling was announced.	cause_specific
Fox News said Trump told them on Thursday that he had negotiated the $1.3 billion fine with Chinese President Xi Jinping in a phone call.	cause_specific
ORLANDO, Florida/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump said he had a “good talk” on Monday with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the Justice Department official in charge of the federal investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, and has no plans to fire him.	main
We had a good talk,” Trump said.	distant_evaluation
Rosenstein has denied the Sept. 21 New York Times report as “inaccurate and factually incorrect.” The article said that while Rosenstein had made the suggestions over concern about chaos in the administration, none of them actually came to fruition.	distant_evaluation
As he left the White House for Orlando, Trump was asked by a reporter if he had any plans to fire Rosenstein.	distant_evaluation
“No I don’t, no,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rosenstein oversees Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation.	cause_general
Russia denies interfering and Trump says there was no collusion between his campaign and Moscow.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (7 Images)	error
Firing Rosenstein before the Nov. 6 congressional elections could have political consequences.	distant_expectations_consequences
Democrats believe it would raise questions about whether Trump would shut down the Mueller probe, which could energize their voters in House and Senate races.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trump told reporters earlier on Monday that he has a “good relationship” with Rosenstein.	distant_evaluation
There has been widespread speculation that Trump might oust Rosenstein, a frequent target of Trump’s tweeted criticism, after a New York Times report that he had made remarks about Trump’s fitness for office and offered to record conversations with him.	cause_specific
“I didn’t know Rod before, but I’ve gotten to know him, and I get along very well with him,” he said.	distant_evaluation
Rosenstein traveled with Trump on Air Force One to Orlando on Monday, where the president gave a speech to police chiefs.	cause_specific
Upon landing, Rosenstein was seen smiling and appeared at ease as he walked down the front stairs of Air Force One alongside Trump’s chief of staff, John Kelly.	distant_evaluation
It was not immediately clear whether Trump and Rosenstein talked about the controversy during their 45-minute-long conversation on the flight, where Kelly and another Department of Justice official, Ed O’Callaghan, were also present.	distant_evaluation
They talked about support for law enforcement officials, border security, crime in Chicago and “general DOJ business,” White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said.	distant_evaluation
“The press wants to know, ‘What did you talk about?’” Trump said at the start of his speech after he thanked Rosenstein for being there and noted the intense media interest.	distant_evaluation
“We had a very good talk, I will say.	distant_evaluation
That became a very big story, actually.	distant_evaluation
NEW DELHI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - India has launched its first national register of sex offenders in a bid to stem crimes against women as the country reels from a series of high-profile rape cases.	main
In August, police in northern Uttar Pradesh state rescued 20 girls and three boys from a home where they were sold for sex.	cause_general
That raid came just weeks after police rescued nearly 30 girls who were sexually assaulted and tortured at a shelter in Bihar state.	cause_general
PRIVACY CONCERNS	distant_evaluation
The urgency to establish a sex offenders register gained momentum following nationwide outcry over the rape and murder of a Muslim girl in a Hindu-dominated area of Jammu and Kashmir state earlier this year.	distant_historical
The accused, all Hindus, are currently on trial.	cause_general
The case prompted the government to approve the death penalty for the rape of girls under 12, and also increase the prison term for the rape of older girls and women.	cause_general
Despite various measures, India’s rape epidemic has shown no sign of dying down.	distant_evaluation
More than 100 cases were reported daily in India in 2016, the latest government data shows.	distant_historical
An op-ed piece in the Hindustan Times newspaper on Friday called the new sex offenders register “timely”, but worried the government could overreach and misuse data, and warned it “may tarnish a person’s life forever if he is reformed”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Jayshree Bajoria of Human Rights Watch had similar concerns, telling the Thomson Reuters Foundation that even a rumor could prove dangerous in a country where incidents of mob justice have spiked recently.	distant_anecdotal
The database will be accessible only to law enforcement agencies and not to the public, with 440,000 names registered, including those convicted of rape, gang rape, child sex crimes and sexual harassment, according to a home ministry statement.	main
“For any real change, the government must do the hard work of actually implementing the laws and policies” that were put in place after the gang rape of a young woman in Delhi in 2012 on a moving bus, she said.	distant_anecdotal
Bajoria urged authorities to focus on supporting and protecting victims of sexual assault to ensure they are able to report crimes and receive justice without facing stigma and harassment.	distant_anecdotal
Many countries, such as the United States, Britain and South Africa keep a record of people who have been convicted of sexual offences such as pedophilia and rape.	cause_general
The United States, for example, has an online database which is open to the public.	cause_general
It provides information including the offender’s photograph and address, as well as details of the crime.	cause_general
In other countries, such as Britain, the policy entails offenders registering with their local police station.	cause_general
Key people within the community such as doctors, youth leaders, landlords are informed and police monitor the offender.	cause_general
It will also provide their photos, addresses and fingerprints, without compromising “any individual’s privacy”.	main
“The National Database on Sexual Offenders (NDSO) ... will assist in effectively tracking and investigating cases of sexual offences,” the ministry said in the statement late Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The register comes as a spate of sexual assault cases have rocked the country, which was named the most dangerous in the world for women by experts in a survey published by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in June.	cause_specific
Earlier this week, police arrested the principal and four staff members of a boarding school in northern India over the rape of a teenage student.	cause_general
Police said they detained four male students for the rape, which left the girl pregnant.	cause_general
The school staff are accused of destroying evidence and covering up the crime.	distant_evaluation
In southern Kerala state, protests and calls grew this week for the arrest of a bishop accused of repeatedly raping a nun over a period of two years.	cause_general
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court begins its new term on Monday in an awkward position, down one justice as the fierce fight unfolds in the Senate over confirmation of President Donald Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to a lifetime job as a justice.	main
These rulings included approving Trump’s travel ban on people from several Muslim-majority nations, prohibiting a type of regulation of anti-abortion clinics, and banning certain public-sector union fees.	distant_historical
“After a term of challenging cases and issues, and an unusually high number of 5-4 decisions, as I see it, we needed our summer break,” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg joked to an audience last week.	distant_evaluation
For the current term that runs through next June, the court does have some important cases, though none yet of the magnitude of the biggest from the previous term.	distant_expectations_consequences
One case over whether a state and the federal government can each prosecute a person for the same crime could impact Trump’s willingness to pardon people like Paul Manafort.	distant_expectations_consequences
Trump’s former campaign chairman was convicted in August of financial crimes by a jury in Virginia and then pleaded guilty in September to reduced charges in Washington brought by Special Counsel Robert Mueller as part of an investigation into Russia’s role in the 2016 election.	cause_general
Other cases include whether the U.S. attorney general has too much power in determining to whom the federal sex offender registry applies, and whether a state can execute a convicted murderer who, after a series of strokes, forgot the crime.	cause_general
A number of hot-button issues may still be teed up for the justices this term, including disputes the court did not resolve last term over the constitutionality of an electoral map-drawing practice called partisan gerrymandering and whether people who run businesses can refuse service to gay couples because of religious objections to same-sex marriage.	distant_expectations_consequences
“The real meat of the coming term is what’s in the pipeline,” Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said at an event organized by the Federalist Society, a conservative lawyers’ group.	distant_evaluation
Major cases making their way up from lower courts include disputes over various abortion restrictions in Republican-led states, whether a federal law against sex discrimination also prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation, and Trump’s plan to restrict transgender troops in the military.	cause_general
Even if only some of those issues come before the justices “we might be talking about this term as one of those blockbuster years that is comparable to what we saw last year,” Francisco said.	distant_evaluation
FILE PHOTO: The building of the U.S. Supreme Court is seen in Washington, U.S., June 26, 2017.	error
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas/File Photo	error
With eight justices rather than the usual nine, the court was set to hear arguments in two cases as it opens its nine-month term, according to tradition, on the first Monday of October.	main
Justice Anthony Kennedy retired effective in July, leaving the court ideologically deadlocked with four conservatives and four liberals on the bench awaiting the outcome of the Kavanaugh battle.	cause_general
Trump nominated the conservative federal appeals court judge in July but his confirmation in the Senate remained in doubt over sexual misconduct allegations that he denies.	distant_evaluation
Unlike prior years, when a series of major cases awaited the justices, there are no blockbusters yet on their calendar.	distant_evaluation
Their first argument on Monday is a property rights case involving protected habitat for a warty amphibian known as the dusky gopher frog.	cause_general
The court’s previous term, which ended in June, included more 5-4 decisions than usual, with conservatives in the majority.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-07 10:35:05|Editor: zh	error
"The court ""will perfectly reflect the deep polarization of the American public and political system,"" Adam Liptak with the New York Times commented."	distant_evaluation
The rightward trend of the U.S. highest court is expected to have long-term substantial effects on many issues deeply dividing Americans, such as abortion, affirmative action, voting and gun rights.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Supreme Court decides matters that shape the U.S. politics.	cause_general
It is both the highest appeals panel and a constitutional court in the country.	cause_general
PARTISAN FIGHT	distant_expectations_consequences
Kavanaugh was confirmed by a margin of 50 votes to 48 in the Senate final floor vote, the slimmest for a Supreme Court nominee in more than a century.	cause_specific
Senator Joe Manchin, who was facing tough re-election campaign in red state West Virginia, was the only Democrat to vote for Kavanaugh's confirmation.	cause_general
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Saturday that the bitter partisan battle over Kavanaugh's confirmation has revved up Republican voters across red states.	distant_evaluation
"""Our base is on fire,"" the top Senate Republican said in an interview with The Hill news daily."	distant_evaluation
However, Democrats also say their voters are now more fired up than ever to deliver a rebuke to the Republicans in the midterm elections, citing women's anger as a force.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"During the Senate final voting on Saturday, hundreds of protesters were demonstrating on Capitol Hill, chanting ""November is coming"" and ""We believe survivors."""	cause_general
Capitol Police said later in the day that 164 of them were arrested.	cause_general
Amid partisan fights over the confirmation, three women came forward last month to accuse Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting or harassing them during his high school and university years.	cause_general
Kavanaugh has denied all the accusations.	cause_general
The results on the upcoming midterm elections seem to be complicated.	distant_evaluation
However, it appears the two mainstream parties in the country would continue fighting each other in a likely more polarized way, analysts say.	distant_expectations_consequences
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 (Xinhua) -- Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump's second Supreme Court nominee, was sworn in on Saturday evening, shortly after the Senate passed his contentious confirmation by a vote of 50-48 amid fierce partisan fights focusing on sexual misconduct allegations against him.	main
COURT MOVES RIGHTWARD	cause_general
Hailed as a big political victory for Trump and the Republican Party, Kavanaugh's lifetime appointment as the 114th Supreme Court justice appeared to secure a solid majority of conservatives on the U.S. highest court for years.	distant_evaluation
Nominating Kavanaugh was the second time in two years that Trump has made a Supreme Court pick.	cause_specific
The 53-year-old succeeded 82-year-old Justice Anthony Kennedy, who retired on July 31 after having served as a pivotal swing vote between conservatives and liberals on the nine-member bench for years.	cause_general
As a result, the court now consists of five conservatives and four liberals.	main_consequence
There will be no swing vote if none of the conservative justices move to the middle.	distant_expectations_consequences
In this file photo taken on June 15, 2018 Paul Manafort arrives for a hearing at U.S. District Court on June 15, 2018 in Washington D.C., the United States, Manafort was found guilty on 8 charges of tax and bank fraud on Aug. 21, 2018.	error
"""Has anybody forced you, coerced you or threatened you in any way?"""	distant_evaluation
she asked later.	distant_evaluation
"""No,"" Manafort replied."	distant_evaluation
"Manafort's lawyer Kevin Downing told reporters after the hearing that his client ""wanted to make sure his family remained safe and live a good life."""	distant_evaluation
"""He has accepted responsibility."""	distant_evaluation
Downing said of Manafort.	distant_evaluation
However, so far all the charges against Manafort are not related to Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, as the White House immediately pointed out in a quick response.	cause_general
"""This had absolutely nothing to do with the President or his victorious 2016 Presidential campaign,"" White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a brief statement."	distant_evaluation
"""It is totally unrelated."""	distant_evaluation
she said.	distant_evaluation
(AFP Photo)	error
Trump has not yet tweeted any comments about Manafort's plea deal.	cause_general
The several tweets he issued on Friday so far were focused on the rescue of Hurricane Florence which made landfall in the U.S. East Coast Friday morning, causing severe damage.	cause_general
According to documents filed in court prior to the hearing, Manafort intends to plead guilty to two charges of the seven he faced at his second trial: conspiring to defraud the United States and conspiring to obstruct justice.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Manafort cheated the United States out of over 15 million dollars in taxes,"" the document says, referring to the veteran Republican lobbyist's income in secret offshore accounts."	distant_evaluation
Also as part of the plea deal, the government plans to seize four properties, including a nearly 2-million-dollar house in Virginia owned by one of his daughters.	distant_expectations_consequences
The deal also calls for forfeiture of four financial accounts and a life insurance policy.	distant_expectations_consequences
Local analysts say Manafort's cooperation with Mueller could provide new clues or evidence over the ongoing probe into alleged Russia meddling into the 2016 U.S. elections.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the guilty plea would allow him to avoid his second trial scheduled to begin later this month and last for weeks, which will save Trump from relative bad headlines before Nov. 6 midterm elections.	distant_expectations_consequences
All the charges against Manafort largely stem from his time working for a pro-Russian leader in Ukraine years before the 2016 U.S. elections.	cause_general
As a result, they do not directly address any alleged collusion between Trump associates or officials and the Russian government, which the Mueller team has been investigating since last year.	cause_general
"WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Paul Manafort, U.S. President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman, will cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller ""fully and truthfully"" as part of his guilty plea deal, a prosecutor said in Washington D.C. federal court on Friday."	main
"Trump has repeatedly attacked the Mueller probe as a ""rigged witch hunt."""	distant_evaluation
Manafort, 69, was a veteran Republican lobbyist.	cause_general
He joined Trump's campaign team in March 2016 and spent three months as Trump's campaign chairman until mid August of that year.	distant_historical
Speaking at the plea hearing in court, prosecutor Andrew Weissmann said that Manafort has agreed to cooperate with investigators, as part of the 17-page deal in which Manafort pleaded guilty to only two out of seven charges.	main
The deal will not release Manafort from prison, but calls for an up to ten-year cap on Manafort's jail time though it may not include any likely sentence for his conviction of eight counts last month in Virginia.	distant_expectations_consequences
The deal will also dismiss deadlocked charges from last month's mistrial of other ten charges in Virginia federal court, the report added.	distant_expectations_consequences
In court on Friday, U.S. District Court judge Amy Berman Jackson asked if the veteran Republican lobbyist understood what rights he's giving up.	distant_evaluation
"""I understand."""	distant_evaluation
"Manafort answered, ""I plead guilty."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-28 20:04:09|Editor: Yang Yi	error
The project construction is undertaken by China Tiesiju Civil Engineering Group Co., Ltd. (CTCE).	cause_general
Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena last year said that illnesses related to the Chronic Kidney Disease had become a national disaster in Sri Lanka.	distant_historical
According to official figures here, there are 20,828 patients and 5,000 deaths per year.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Guests attend the foundation laying ceremony of a water testing laboratory at the Peradeniya University, in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on Sept. 28, 2018.	error
Sri Lanka and China will launch the construction of a state-of-the-art water testing laboratory at the Peradeniya University, in the central highlands of the island country to find a scientific solution to end chronic kidney disease of unknown origin (CKDu), Sri Lanka's government information department said in a report on Friday.	error
(Xinhua)	error
COLOMBO, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- Sri Lanka and China will launch the construction of a state-of-the-art water testing laboratory at the Peradeniya University, in the central highlands of the island country to find a scientific solution to end chronic kidney disease of unknown origin (CKDu), Sri Lanka's government information department said in a report on Friday.	main
Sri Lanka's City Planning and Water Supply Minister, Rauff Hakeem said the construction of the China, Sri Lanka Joint Research and Demonstration Center for Water Technology would begin on Saturday and will be completed by May 2020.	distant_expectations_consequences
The University of Peradeniya, Chinese Academy of Sciences and the City Planning and Water Supply Ministry are partners to the project, Minister Hakeem said.	cause_general
Hakeem further said the project grant by the Chinese government was a result of President Maithripala Sirisena's visit to China in 2015.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-14 21:48:12|Editor: xuxin	error
"This comes against a backdrop of various iterations of the prime minister's ""Abenomics"" brand of economic policies, yet Japan, the world's third largest economy, has a public debt amounting to 236 percent of its gross domestic product (GDP), which remains the worst in the industrialized world."	cause_general
"Ishiba, during Friday's debate, voiced his criticism of ""Abenomics,"" which has failed to fix or significantly impact Japan's woeful fiscal health, while the Bank of Japan continues to struggle to definitively pull the nation out of deflation and hit its lofty 2 percent inflation target."	main
As for other key themes, Abe said his career goal of amending Japan's pacifist constitution remained unchanged.	main
"""I'm determined to start a new era for Japan by tackling what we haven't been able to do for the past 70 years since the end of the war, a constitutional revision,"" said Abe."	main
The prime minister wants to specifically reference the Self-Defense Forces in the constitution so as there is no ambiguity about their constitutionality.	main
But Ishiba, who has taken a cautious stance towards Abe's plans, maintained that the Constitution should not be amended without a full and sincere explanation to the public.	main
"""It doesn't mean all is well as long as the SDF is written,"" Ishiba argued."	main
He said that he disagrees with Abe's methodology of changing the charter and said they both remain duty-bound to present all the facts to the public as that is where sovereignty resides.	main
He added that a more fundamental approach should be taken.	main
On disaster prevention, as the nation has been battered by torrential rains, typhoons and earthquakes recently, Abe vowed to carry out emergency measures over the next three years to help prevent and mitigate the effects of disasters when they occur and improve the nation's resilience.	main
Video Player Close	error
Ishiba said that a dedicated government office that specializes in disaster preparedness should be created and overseen by a minister, with its staff in a state of preparedness 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.	main
The LDP presidential election votes will be counted and the winner announced on Sept. 20.	distant_expectations_consequences
TOKYO, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and former Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba on Friday held a policy debate on a variety of pivotal issues as campaigning continues ahead of next week's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) leadership contest.	main
"Abe, who if he wins his third successive three-year term as head of the LDP, will effectively become Japan's longest serving prime minister, pledged to address Japan's severe demographic issues, calling Japan's aging and shrinking population a ""national crisis."""	main
He proposed to overhaul the social welfare system to allow workers who are aged 65 or older to continue working beyond their retirement age, as well as allowing people aged over 70 to chose for themselves when to start receiving pension payouts.	main
Ishiba, for his part, highlighted the fact that the funding necessary for the country's social welfare system must be secured, and reiterated his stance on revitalizing regional economies as they could become potential new growth drivers.	main
He said that he does not believe that big businesses expanding will have any benefit on regional economies.	main
In terms of social security costs, the government has requested a record high budget of 102.5 trillion yen (916 billion U.S. dollars) for fiscal year 2019, with Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare asking for 31.90 trillion yen (285 billion U.S. dollars), a new record high and a 2.5 percent increase from the previous budget, as it continues to grapple with swelling spending on welfare costs.	cause_general
According to the ministry, its expenditure is set to rocket to more than 32 trillion yen (286 billion U.S. dollars), up by about 600 billion yen (5.36 billion U.S. dollars).	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-19 19:08:22|Editor: xuxin	error
Nevertheless, interior minister and CSU leader Horst Seehofer, whose ministry is responsible for nominating the leadership of the BfV, insisted that his trust in Maasen remained intact.	distant_evaluation
In his new role, Maasen will once again report to Seehofer while receiving a monthly salary of 14,100 euros (16,500 U.S. dollars) compared to 11,500 euros at the BfV.	main_consequence
The interior minister is scheduled to provide detailed information about the responsibilities of Maasen as secretary of state on Wednesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
"CDU leader Merkel, CSU leader Seehofer and SPD leader Andrea Nahles described Maasen's promotion as a sensible compromise which would ensure the continued existence of the ""grand coalition"" and thus enable the federal government to return to its regular work."	distant_evaluation
However, the unusual personnel decision in response to widespread allegations of inappropriate behavior was met with a wave of criticism in the German media, the ruling parties themselves and the opposition.	distant_evaluation
"The magazine ""SPIEGEL"" wrote that the final outcome and way in which a decision was reached in the affair offered an ""exemplary case of how to promote frustration with politics."""	distant_evaluation
"SPD vice-president Ralf Stegner similarly told the German press agency (dpa) on Wednesday that the development was a ""disaster"" which would cause support in his party for a continuation of the ""grand coalition"" to fall even further to dangerously low levels."	distant_expectations_consequences
For Kevin Kuehnert, the leader of the SPD youth organization (Juso) and one of the most outspoken critics of Merkel, Seehofer and Maasen, the time has come for the party to exit Merkel's fourth ruling cabinet.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Kuehnert argued in the newspaper ""Rheinische Post"" that the ""price for the continued existence of the coalition is too high."""	distant_evaluation
"He lamented that Maasen's promotion was a ""slap in the face"" for everybody who had to shoulder the full responsibility for themselves and their behavior at work every day."	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
"The Greens (Gruene) and Left party (Linke) both attacked the move as a being a ""farcical"" solution in separate statements."	distant_evaluation
Free Democratic Party (FDP) vice president Stephan Thomae interpreted the surprising success of Maasen in securing a new government post under Seehofer as a sign of Merkel's rapidly eroding authority in her won cabinet.	distant_evaluation
BERLIN, Sept. 19 (Xinhua) -- German intelligence chief Hans-Georg Maasen will be promoted to a more senior post in the interior ministry, the country's federal government announced on Tuesday night.	main
The decision to relieve Maasen of his duties as president of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) and instead offer him the better salaried position as secretary of state for interior- and cyber security was reached during an emergency cabinet session.	cause_specific
"Earlier, the German Social Democrats (SPD) had threatened to quit the ""grand coalition"", formed together with the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and Christian Social Union (CSU), unless Chancellor Angela Merkel (CDU) personally ensured that Maasen was sacked by Wednesday."	distant_expectations_consequences
The previously-little known national intelligence services executive, the former BfV president, has recently sparked heated public debate in Germany by questioning the authenticity of a video footage in which right-wing extremists were seen chasing and accosting stereotypically foreign-looking civilians on the streets of Chemnitz.	cause_general
In doing so, Maasen directly contradicted chancellor Merkel and local security officers on the issue before backtracking on the statement in question during a subsequent report.	cause_general
As a consequence, senior SPD politicians complained that the uncertainty created by Maasen and the resulting impetus provided to online conspiracy theories, as well as a growing impression that the BfV president has personal sympathies for the far-right, rendered him unsuitable for the task of protecting the German constitution.	distant_evaluation
Maasen has previously already been accused of offering clandestine advice to the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party on how to prevent its monitoring by the BfV, a claim he vigorously denies.	cause_general
Russia's President Vladimir Putin (L) shakes hands with his Turkey's counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan during their meeting in Tehran on September 7, 2018.	error
(AFP Photo)	error
MOSCOW, Sept. 16 (Xinhua) -- Russian President Vladimir Putin will discuss Syrian issues with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Russia's Sochi on Monday, the Kremlin said in a statement Sunday.	main
The meeting will take place at a time when the Syrian government forces backed by Russia and Iran are preparing an offensive against rebels' last major stronghold in Idlib province, although Turkey and the United States have repeatedly warned against any operation.	cause_general
Erdogan's call for a cease-fire in Idlib, which borders Turkey, was accepted neither by Russia nor Iran at the tripartite summit in Tehran on Sept. 7.	cause_general
Last week, four Russian warplanes stationed in Syria's Hmeymim airbase attacked militants in Idlib and the Russian Foreign Ministry said it was important and urgent to eradicate terrorism in Idlib.	cause_general
Russian strategic bombers have simulated striking targets in Syria.	cause_general
Turkey and the United States reject the possible offensive in Idlib, citing that it could cause great civilian casualties and even a humanitarian disaster.	distant_expectations_consequences
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo are expected to negotiate over Idlib on the sidelines of the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly that will open on Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-14 03:12:24|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
"The two warring sides will be committed ""to fully implementing the agreement and to working toward the removal of any obstructions or impediments to its implementation; and to refraining from any action, escalation or decisions that would undermine the prospects for full implementation of the agreement,"" the statement said."	distant_expectations_consequences
The delegations representing the two sides will be committed to continuing the consultations unconditionally in January 2019 in a location to be agreed upon in Sweden, it added.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yemeni political analysts and observers praised Sweden's deal and considered it a significant win for the exhausted Yemeni people and a key breakthrough for the UN-sponsored talks aimed at ending the country's conflict.	distant_evaluation
But some fear the interpretation and the implementation of Hodeidah's cease-fire deal and other agreements will be likely more difficult than the announcement.	distant_expectations_consequences
Abdul-Raqeeb Hidyani, a political analyst and writer, told Xinhua that Sweden's deal was an important step in the long road of solving Yemen's complicated issue that caused these tragedies.	distant_anecdotal
"""The implementation and the interpretation of the agreements in Sweden is the most important thing because many previous agreements failed just days after the signing ceremonies,"" Hidyani said."	distant_anecdotal
Nadwa Dawsari, a Yemeni researcher and conflict specialist, said it's too early to get excited about the new deal.	distant_anecdotal
"""The devil is in the details."	distant_anecdotal
"At best, it will lead to improving humanitarian conditions and easing some tensions, but it will be highly unlikely lead to ending the conflict,"" he warned."	distant_anecdotal
Yahya Abu Hatim, a strategic military expert and observer, said Houthis is likely the only side that benefits from the agreements.	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
"""The Houthis participated in the talks just to show themselves in front of the international community as a group that respect politics and that is not true because Houthis did not respect many political agreements in the past and only resort to military actions,"" he said."	distant_anecdotal
Sources confirmed that the withdrawal of the warring forces from Hodeidah will be conducted within 14 days in two phases.	distant_expectations_consequences
The two parties have been discussing the details of re-opening the airport in Sanaa, de-escalation measures in both Taiz and Hodeidah, and implementation of the agreement on exchanging prisoners, as well as the economic situation, Griffiths said.	cause_general
Yemen has been mired in a civil war since 2014 when the Houthi rebels overtook the capital Sanaa and toppled the government of President Abd-Rabbuh Mansour Hadi.	cause_general
A Saudi-led coalition has been fighting the Houthis since 2015.	cause_general
The war has killed more than 10,000 people and created the world's worst humanitarian crisis.	cause_general
The latest peace talks tackled a wide range of substantive issues, with the aim of putting Yemen back on the path of peace, and alleviating the suffering of the Yemeni people.	distant_expectations_consequences
by Murad Abdo	error
ADEN, Yemen, Dec. 13 (Xinhua) -- The Saudi-backed Yemeni government and the Houthi rebels concluded the UN-sponsored peace talks in Sweden on Thursday with an agreement on cease-fire in the flashpoint Red Sea port city of Hodeidah.	main
They also agreed to withdraw the warring forces within days, a significant progress witnessed by the UN chief Antonio Guterres who participated in the Yemeni negotiating teams at the closing ceremony of the seven-day peace talks.	cause_general
Guterres said what was done during the talks was an important step for the benefit of the Yemeni people.	distant_evaluation
"""You have reached an agreement on Hodeidah port and city, which will see a mutual re-deployment of forces from the port and the city, and the establishment of a province-wide cease-fire,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The UN will play a leading role in the port,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
According to a statement from the UN Special Envoy for Yemen Martin Griffiths, the parties reached an agreement on the city of Hodeidah and the ports of Hodeidah, Salif and Ras Issa, an executive mechanism on activating the prisoner exchange agreement, and a statement of understanding on Taiz.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-03 18:53:52|Editor: xuxin	error
It added that 20 registered political parties contested in the voting, and 83.02 percent of the registered voters cast their ballots.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
PHNOM PENH, Dec. 3 (Xinhua) -- Cambodia is reviewing its law in order to allow banned opposition politicians to return to politics, the government said in a statement on Monday.	main
"A total of 118 former Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) senior leaders have been barred from joining politics for five years since November 2017 after the CNRP was dissolved by the Supreme Court following the arrest of party leader Kem Sokha over ""treason"" charges."	cause_specific
The Phnom Penh Municipal Court granted bail to Sokha in September, allowing him to be transferred from the prison to his house in Phnom Penh on health reasons.	distant_historical
However, the 65-year-old former opposition leader was put under court surveillance with some conditions.	cause_general
"""In order to further promote democracy and the rule of law, the National Assembly is reviewing legal provisions to enable individuals who were banned from politics to resume their political activities,"" the statement said."	main
It once again defended the July 29 general election that saw the ruling Cambodian People's Party (CPP) of Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen won all 125 National Assembly seats.	distant_evaluation
"""The election of the sixth legislature of the National Assembly on 29 July 2018 was conducted in a free, fair, peaceful and transparent manner,"" the statement said."	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to reporters before leaving for the G20 Summit in Argentina from the White House in Washington D.C., the United States, on Nov. 29, 2018.	error
"""If one really decided to come to an agreement on something, this incident could not have prevented the meeting,"" Russian political scientist Mikhail Sinelnikov-Orishak told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
Russian experts were skeptical about the meeting from the very beginning.	distant_evaluation
No breakthroughs were expected due to U.S. internal politics.	distant_evaluation
The fundamental difference between Russia and the United States in approaches to solving regional problems, such as the Syrian and Ukrainian issues, is another reason behind aborting the meeting.	distant_evaluation
"""A meeting between Trump and Putin is only possible with prior coordination of positions and an agenda, which will allow discussing various kinds of issues and finding points of contact,"" said Nikita Danyu, deputy director of the Institute for Strategic Studies and Forecasts of Russia's RUDN University."	distant_expectations_consequences
He noted that the only topic that could bring together the two leaders is global security, which includes Washington's plans to withdraw from arms control treaties.	distant_evaluation
However, the Trump administration has little interest in these issues, according to Pavel Zolotaryov, head of the Military and Political Research section of the Moscow-based Institute for United States and Canada Studies.	distant_evaluation
"""U.S. President's National Security Affairs Assistant John Bolton is also not very inclined to deal with this problem, maybe only in the sense of getting rid of these treaties."	distant_evaluation
"He believes that the U.S. has no need of them,"" Zolotaryov said."	distant_evaluation
Despite disappointment, Putin is ready for dialogue with his U.S. counterpart, Peskov said Friday.	distant_evaluation
(Xinhua/Ting Shen)	error
MOSCOW, Nov. 30 (Xinhua) -- Russia expressed disappointment at U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to cancel his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Argentina, saying that the move was a result of U.S. internal politics and lack of an agenda.	main
"""We regret the U.S. administration's decision ..."	main
"It meant the presidents' discussion on serious issues on the international and bilateral agenda has been postponed indefinitely,"" Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday."	main
"On Thursday, Trump tweeted that considering the unsolved Russia-Ukraine confrontation, it would be ""best"" to cancel his meeting with Putin, which was previously scheduled for Dec. 1 on the sidelines of the Group of 20 (G20) summit."	distant_evaluation
Russia on Sunday seized near the Kerch Strait three Ukrainian naval ships that allegedly breached the Russian border, although Kiev denied the allegations.	cause_specific
"The White House reiterated Friday that the reason for cancelling meeting was Ukraine, adding that the ongoing Russia probe ""probably does undermine"" the U.S. relationship with Russia."	distant_evaluation
Despite Washington's repeated citing of the Kerch Strait incident, Russian experts believed that Trump used the tensions between Russia and Ukraine as a pretext for canceling the talks.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-12 23:19:34|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
The rules of the leadership process state that the leader can face just one confidence vote in a year, so if May wins on Wednesday evening she will be immune from challenges until next December.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, if the vote is a close one May could feel that she is too politically damaged to continue, and she would step down as leader and prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""You can win a confidence vote by one vote and stay in place, but I would suggest that that kind of majority would not be sufficient,"" Bale said."	distant_evaluation
"""It might be a technical win, but it would mean the Conservative Party leader is fatally wounded,"" he added."	distant_evaluation
If May is defeated, or if she steps down as a result of the vote, then the Conservative Party will immediately begin the process of choosing a leader, who will become the new prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
The head of the 1922 Committee Graham Brady will agree a date for the first round of the leadership election with the prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
Then, candidates for leader will come forward from among Conservative MPs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Each candidate needs just two other MPs to nominate them for the election.	distant_expectations_consequences
This could see an initially large field of candidates running for leadership, and a series of votes will be held among Conservative MPs.	distant_expectations_consequences
In each round of the vote, the lowest polling leadership candidate will fall out of the race until there are just two left.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Both those candidates will then be put to a postal ballot by the entire membership of the Conservative Party across the whole of Great Britain.	distant_expectations_consequences
Figures from March this year show that this electorate is about 124,000 strong.	cause_general
May went through the initial parts of this process in the summer of 2016 when she was eventually chosen to replace outgoing David Cameron, who quit the morning after the June referendum set Britain on a path to leave the European Union (EU).	distant_historical
At that time, the initial rounds of voting among Conservative MPs to reduce the field to two candidates took 10 days, and a postal ballot of party members was not necessary as the other candidate in the election with May withdrew from the race.	distant_historical
The first part of the process, the voting rounds for MPs, could take the process up until just before Christmas.	distant_expectations_consequences
With the disruption of holidays and to the postal system, it would not be possible to hold a ballot of the full party membership until the New Year.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- British Prime Minister Theresa May will face a vote of no confidence Wednesday from Members of Parliament (MPs) in her own Conservative Party that could see her kicked out of her role as prime minister and the Party leader.	main
If that were to happen, May would still remain as prime minister until her successor had been chosen.	distant_expectations_consequences
That could see May remaining in Downing Street into January, with important government business effectively put on hold, and most significantly no progress being made on any Brexit deal.	distant_expectations_consequences
The vote of no confidence in May will be carried out by the so-called 1922 Committee, the representative group for Conservative MPs.	cause_general
The vote was triggered early on Wednesday morning when the necessary quota of 48 letters from MPs asking for a leadership vote was reached, which represents 15 percent of Tory MPs.	cause_specific
If May can win the support of 158 Tory MPs, 50 percent of MPs plus one, then she can stay as leader and as prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""May only has to win a simple majority in this no confidence vote in order to stay as leader,"" constitutional expert Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University London (QMUL), told Xinhua."	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-13 03:40:56|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Hours before the vote started, the UK business community voiced heightened concerns, regarding it as a move that will create continuing uncertainties about Brexit.	distant_evaluation
"Adam Marshall, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: ""At one of the most pivotal moments for the UK economy in decades, it is unacceptable that Westminster politicians have chosen to focus on themselves, rather than on the needs of the country."	distant_evaluation
"""The utter dismay among businesses watching events in Westminster cannot be exaggerated."	distant_evaluation
"Our firms are worried, investors around the world are baffled and disappointed, and markets are showing serious strain as this political saga goes on and on,"" Marshall said."	distant_evaluation
"""The last thing businesses needed today was even more uncertainty -- and yet politics has managed to deliver on that once again,"" Stephen Martin, director general of the Institute of Directors, said."	distant_evaluation
"""Ensuring economic stability and certainty in the months ahead should be priority number one for all politicians."""	distant_evaluation
In a speech delivered outside 10 Downing Street on Wednesday morning, May warned against a leadership change, which she said will put the country's future at risk.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The new leader wouldn't have time to renegotiate a withdrawal agreement and get the legislation through parliament by March 29, so one of their first acts would have to be extending, or rescinding, Article 50, delaying or even stopping Brexit,"" May said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
LONDON, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- The UK financial markets remained positive on Wednesday evening as Prime Minister Theresa May was preparing for a no confidence vote.	main
British stocks and the pound were both surging.	cause_specific
The FTSE 100 rose 1.08 percent to close at 6880.19 points, while the more domestic-focused FTSE 250 index was up 1.90 percent to close at 17,988.97 points.	cause_specific
UK property developers Berkeley Group and Barratt Developments, house building company Persimmon, and engineering company Rolls-Royce were among the best performers.	cause_general
The pound was up 0.75 percent against the euro, and 1.32 against the U.S. dollar as the no confidence vote started at 1800 GMT.	cause_specific
The vote will be anonymous and the result is expected to be announced at around 2100 GMT.	distant_expectations_consequences
The buoyancy seen in the markets came as media reports indicated May has more support than 158 Tory MPs to win the no confidence vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-05 21:20:28|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
"""If a measure that we have taken, which is costing the public money, turns out not to be working, if it's not going well, we're not stupid - we would change it,"" he said."	main
"""We are evaluating it, we are controlling it."	distant_evaluation
This money was to be invested in our small and medium enterprises for them to develop, innovate and hire.	distant_expectations_consequences
"If that is not the case, if the evaluation is not good, then we can reopen it for discussion,"" he added."	distant_expectations_consequences
Shortly after his inauguration in May 2017, President Emmanuel Macron amended the tax on profits above 1 million euros (1.135 million U.S. dollars) imposed by his predecessor Francois Hollande.	cause_specific
"Eyeing to encourage investment in real economy and create jobs, he maintained only the tax on real estate and cancelled that covering other assets including jewelry to yachts, a move that ignited critics, describing him as ""president of the rich."""	cause_specific
Over the past three weeks, people angry at Macron's policy staged country-wide blockades and demonstrations, exerting more pressure on the former investment banker whose public support reached record low.	cause_general
"Taking their name from the high visibility vests drivers keep in their cars, the ""Yellow Vests"" is spontaneous action created on social media to oppose planned increase in tax fuel and diesel's price, the most commonly used car fuel in France."	cause_general
For three weeks, the movement has blocked highways in many regions, obstructed access to fuel depots, shopping centers and some factories.	cause_general
Protests turned violent notably in Paris, forcing the government to shift its course.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
"On Tuesday, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe announced six-month suspension of the carbon-tax, the time to launch talks ""to identify and implement fair and effective measures,"" to help the working-class citizens to switch to environment-friendly vehicles."	cause_general
"However, the government's financial aid fell short to tread water on people's disenchantment as ""Yellow Vests"" supporters have already been coordinating on social media to stage more nationwide blockades on Saturday."	distant_expectations_consequences
PARIS, Dec. 5 (Xinhua) -- The French government would look at reimposing wealth tax on the rich if the measure deemed not to be working, government spokesperson Benjamin Griveaux said on Wednesday, as France is bracing for nationwide blockades and protests on Saturday, for the fourth weekend in a row.	main
"""We have heard (public anger), we will correct, and above all we will talk to each other."	distant_expectations_consequences
If we do not find good solutions, we will accept the consequences.	distant_expectations_consequences
We're not in politics to be right.	distant_evaluation
"We're in politics so that things work out,"" Griveaux told RTL radio."	distant_evaluation
Asked whether the government would go back on the cancellation of wealth tax, known as ISF, Griveaux suggested it was possible.	distant_expectations_consequences
"But ""the issue is not on the table for now."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-17 06:06:43|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Amber Rudd, who served as Home Secretary, essentially Britain's top interior minister, was brought back into the cabinet to succeed McVey.	cause_general
Raab, who only took over the Brexit hot seat in July after the first holder of the post, David Davis, resigned, was succeeded by a politician relatively known outside the so-called Westminster bubble.	cause_general
Health Minister Stephen Barclay was appointed to what political commentator described as the government job no politician wanted.	distant_evaluation
Former banker Barclay, who supported Britain leaving the European Union in the 2016 referendum, was appointed to the House of Commons in 2010, representing a constituency on Cambridgeshire.	distant_historical
The main attention remained focused firmly on May with reports that the number of names needed to trigger a vote of no confidence in her had reached the minimum 48 required.	cause_general
In what is a highly secretive procedure, an announcement of a vote will be made at some stage, and result in a vote among the more than 300 Conservative MPs.	cause_general
Professor Cowley believes a no-confidence move could even give May a boost if she wins the vote among Conservative MPs who sit in the House of Commons.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Even if she wins by one vote it would mean she could not be challenged again for a year,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Cowley, a political scientist, who has co-authored a new book, The British General Election of 2017, said if May lost the vote, or decided to step down if she won only by an insignificant margin, there would have to be a leadership contest to elect a new leader and prime minister, causing a delay of several weeks to the Brexit roller-coaster.	distant_expectations_consequences
May, he said, could be strengthened by the party's own rules which would prevent a second challenge for at least a year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"""It would immediately mean that attack would disappear."	distant_evaluation
At the moment May is facing a battle on two flanks, one in parliament and the other within her own Conservative Party.	distant_evaluation
"""If she won the vote of confidence by a big enough margin to carry on, and there has been talk of her winning by around 100, she would be at least able not to have to worry about another challenge from her own MPs."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Cowley said one problem for May could be Conservative MPs who had not wanted a challenge in the first place, but who had doubts about her leadership, deciding that this would be their one chance to seek a new party leader.	cause_specific
"""My own hunch is that this would be a 50-50 chance of her winning this, and that is not a good position for a prime minister to be in."""	main
But Cowley said May, or a successor, would have to steer the Brexit measures through the British Parliament with one possible outcome a confidence vote.	distant_expectations_consequences
That, said Cowley, could see the Conservative government collapsing with a general election early in 2019 -- possibly around January or February.	distant_expectations_consequences
Such an election could, he said, see Labour's Jeremy Corbyn as prime minister of a minority government, bidding to negotiate a Brexit deal or an extension to the Article 50 process that started the ball rolling in the first place to end Britain's EU membership.	distant_expectations_consequences
Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May leaves 10 Downing Street to speak to the British Parliament on the draft Brexit deal in London, Britain, on Nov. 15, 2018.	error
(Xinhua/Stephen Chung)	error
by Larry Neild	error
LONDON, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- As British Prime Minister Theresa May appointed replacements Friday for the two front-bench ministers who quit this week, a leading expert in politics predicted she only stood a 50-50 chance of winning a challenge to her leadership.	main
Professor Philip Cowley from Queen Mary University of London said those odds of success for her reign at 10 Downing Street are not such a good position for her to be in.	distant_evaluation
As political commentators and parliamentary correspondents in London eagerly waited to see if a challenge to May emerges, the prime minster was busy at Number 10 hiring two new ministers to take over from Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab and Works and Pensions Secretary Esther McVey who quit this week from their government roles.	cause_general
Both said they could not support the Brexit agreement agreed this week by the majority of May's cabinet.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-03 03:00:40|Editor: Lu Hui	error
The leader of the main opposition Labour Party, Sir Keir Starmer, said in a Sunday morning television interview that his party will call for a confidence vote in May's government if she loses the vote, with a snap general election a possible outcome.	distant_expectations_consequences
To add to May's political woes, opposition parties at Westminster are on the warpath over a government refusal to publish advice given about the Brexit withdrawal deal by the country's top legal officer, Attorney General Geoffrey Cox.	cause_general
Cox, who wrote the advice, will make a statement on Monday in the House of Commons on the advice he has given, with only a summary of the legal advice published.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Democratic Unionist Party, whose 10 MPs give May's minority government its slender majority, has accused the government of having something to hide by holding back on the full advice politicians have demanded.	cause_general
Behind the row over the advice is a suspicion by some politicians that it explains the arrangements in the withdrawal deal over the fate of the post-Brexit border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.	distant_evaluation
A permanent solution to maintaining a frictionless border between the two parts of Ireland has yet to be agreed by Britain and the EU.	cause_general
The fear among some politicians is that a temporary border arrangement, which May insists would only be for a short time, could be in place indefinitely as it would need approval from the European Union to remove.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Sunday Times claims in a major report that Britain would be trapped indefinitely in a customs union with Brussels if MPs back May's Brexit deal.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The government's top law officer ruled that the only way Britain could escape the backstop would be to sign a new trade deal, which could take years."	distant_expectations_consequences
"But he warned Britain could remain trapped if those talks collapsed,"" said the newspaper."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
Its report claimed the details have been confirmed to the newspaper by three serving cabinet ministers, including the former Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab, who resigned recently because of his opposition to May's deal with the EU.	cause_general
"On the last day of her visit to Argentina where she attended the G20 Summit, May said: ""The next nine days are a really important time for our country leading up to the vote on this deal."""	distant_evaluation
May has insisted she will press on with promoting her withdrawal agreement, saying it is the best deal for the country and respects the decision of the 2016 referendum when Britain voted to leave the EU.	cause_general
She returned to 10 Downing Street Sunday to prepare for what will be one of the most important and intense periods in British politics in a generation.	distant_evaluation
Meanwhile Glees, who is director of the Center for Security and Intelligence Studies at the University of Buckingham, said it seems inevitable May will lose on Dec. 11, with no more than 286 of the 650 MPs backing her, and the number of supporters decreasing on a daily basis.	distant_expectations_consequences
May's withdrawal plan, said Glees, is a compromise which has split MPs in the House of Commons because it pleases neither side.	distant_evaluation
Glees acknowledged that despite what MPs say, nobody can be sure how they will vote on Dec. 11.	distant_evaluation
"On the question of what will happen, Glees told Xinhua: ""We are moving now into totally uncharted waters."	distant_evaluation
Mrs May will probably want to try again if she loses on Dec. 11.	distant_expectations_consequences
Perhaps a stock market and currency slump would focus Conservative MPs' minds on the need to support her a second time.	distant_expectations_consequences
LONDON, Dec. 2 (Xinhua) -- Britain could be plunged into a constitutional crisis if Prime Minister Theresa May loses her crucial Brexit vote on Dec. 11, a leading political academic told Xinhua on Sunday.	main
"Perhaps she would dissolve Parliament and have a general election."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Glees says his understanding is that May believes the British people voted to quit the EU and if she does not achieve this it will destroy the Conservative Party.	distant_expectations_consequences
"In a reference to the long standing Eurosceptic wing within the Conservative party, Glees said: ""The Brexiters have, after 40 years, finally won and May has to recognize that."	distant_evaluation
"At the same time, as a vicar's daughter, she genuinely wants not to harm ordinary British people."""	distant_evaluation
Glees said if it ends in disaster for May, and she faces a confidence vote it could lead one of her ministers taking over as prime minister.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Or there could be an early snap general election and a new Labour leader, perhaps with my former Brunel student John McDonnell (Labour's Shadow Chancellor) in Downing Street."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Britain could then enter a long period of political and economic decline, ending in state socialism in our country or a period of rule by experts and security chiefs."""	distant_expectations_consequences
However, it is also possible, believed Glees, that May will decide there needs to be a second referendum.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""It is inconceivable that a government, or a political party that induced widescale economic collapse in the UK could survive,"" said Glees."	distant_evaluation
The latest YouGov poll, carried out for the People's Vote campaign, shows support for remaining in the EU at 55 percent, the highest level by the polling company since the 2016 referendum.	cause_general
Lawmakers will start a marathon five-day debate on Tuesday on the withdrawal deal agreed between May and the European Council a week ago.	cause_general
With up to 100 Conservatives MPs threatening to vote against the deal, it will plunge Britain's roller-coaster process of leaving the European Union (EU) into unchartered waters.	distant_expectations_consequences
So far nobody knows what will happen if May loses the vote, with leading politicians and political commentators putting forward a range of post-vote scenarios.	cause_general
They range from May seeking a modified deal from Britain, to her resigning as prime minister to let a new occupant of 10 Downing Street to take over the Brexit relay race, to a snap general election.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Professor Anthony Glees from the University of Buckingham told Xinhua in an exclusive interview: ""This is a political crisis which can, on Dec. 11, become a constitutional crisis if May loses, as all the experts believe she will do."	main
"If it is not resolved properly and quickly it will explode into a crisis affecting everyone in the UK, old, young, rich, poor, employer and employee, the sick and the healthy."""	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-09 10:36:01|Editor: Chengcheng	error
"""She supports tougher U.S. engagement with the world,"" the researcher added."	distant_evaluation
After Trump tapping her for the post, experts believe that Nauert may face a tough Senate confirmation hearing on her qualification.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The loudest opposition will come from Democrats,"" noted Galdieri, who believes that Nauert's almost total lack of diplomatic experience will be the most obvious weak point that the lawmakers won't let go."	distant_evaluation
"""Unlike Nikki Haley, she (Nauert) doesn't have a background in day-to-day politics to help her navigate the UN,"" Galdieri added."	distant_evaluation
Haley, a close Trump ally who announced her resignation in October, served two-term South Carolina governor before assuming the post as top U.S. diplomat at the UN.	cause_general
Meanwhile, scholars also acknowledged that Nauert has her own strong points.	distant_evaluation
"""It is worth noting that she has now worked closely with two Secretaries of State over the past two years,"" Dan Mahaffee, senior vice president and director of policy at the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress, told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
"Mahaffee also pointed out that the Trump administration's priority for the UN post should be ""an articulate spokesperson at a time when many of the debates before that body are reflecting a competition among ideals and worldviews."""	distant_evaluation
With the Senate having a Republican majority, it will be able to confirm Nauert's nomination, said West.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, even if confirmed, what's been waiting for Nauert at the UN was not an easy task.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
"""Her (Nauert's) biggest challenge will be supporting Trump's policies at a time they are very contentious around the world,"" West observed."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Both friends and foes have doubts about the America First approach and it has driven wedges into many different foreign policy relationships,"" the expert added."	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Donald Trump tapped State Department Spokesperson Heather Nauert as the next U.S. envoy to the United Nations (UN), whose fairly blank resume in foreign policy may place tough challenges ahead for her, experts have said.	main
"Trump announced his decision on Friday, praising the 48-year-old spokeswoman as a ""very talented, very smart, very quick"" person who worked well with State Secretary Mike Pompeo."	distant_evaluation
"Trump administration senior officials, including Pompeo and the White House Spokesperson Sarah Sanders, voiced their support for Nauert, a longtime Fox News host before joining the State Department in April 2017, showing confidence that she will be ""a strong voice for the United States"" at the UN."	distant_evaluation
But picking Nauert, an Illinois native, to represent the United States at the international arena is seen by experts as an unorthodox choice, as the veteran news presenter had little political or foreign policy-making experience apart from her less-than-two-year tenure in the State Department.	distant_evaluation
"Choosing Nauert to succeed outgoing Nikki Haley showed that ""Trump values the external, outward-facing part of governance and diplomacy,"" Chris Galdieri, an associate professor at Saint Anselm College, told Xinhua."	distant_evaluation
For Darrell West, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, loyalty serves as a key factor.	distant_evaluation
"""He (Trump) appointed her because of her personal loyalty to him and alignment with his foreign policy goals,"" West said."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-08 04:50:26|Editor: yan	error
She announced no further plans although she has been mentioned as a possible future candidate for the U.S. presidency.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""She's very talented, very smart, very quick, and I think she's going to be respected by all,"" the president said of Nauert."	distant_evaluation
However, Nauert has to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate before officially taking up her post, leaving little time for Haley to show her the ropes by Dec. 31.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
"UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 7 (Xinhua) -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres ""very much looks forward to working"" with State Department spokesman Heather Nauert, named on Friday to be the next U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, replacing Nikki Haley."	main
"""The secretary-general very much looks forward to working with Miss Nauert when she assumes her post and continuing the very productive and strong working relationship he enjoyed with Ambassador Haley,"" Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for the United Nations Secretary-General Guterres, told reporters at a regular briefing."	main
Nauert's selection by U.S. President Donald Trump was no surprise at the United Nations since her name was among the very first mentioned as a possible successor to Haley, a former governor of the U.S. state of South Carolina.	distant_evaluation
By contrast, Nauert has little political or foreign policy experience, having worked as a State Department spokesman since April 2017 and before that as the host of a television show on Trump's favorite network, Fox, and a TV correspondent at ABC News.	distant_evaluation
She follows a respected list of U.S. ambassadors to the world organization many of whom had distinctive careers in politics or diplomacy.	cause_general
Her future colleagues in the UN Security Council also have had distinguished careers in diplomacy.	cause_general
Haley, in announcing her intention to quit the post said she was leaving at the end of the year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-24 02:39:55|Editor: yan	error
The United Nations has a Verification Mission in Colombia to watch the reintegration of FARC fighters into political, economic and social life and their personal and collective security.	distant_historical
The UN Verification Mission succeeded in September 2017 a UN mission of unarmed observers to monitor and verify the cease-fire between the Colombian government and FARC.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Friday hailed the progress on peacebuilding in Colombia between the government and the rebel Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) on the occasion of the second anniversary of their peace agreement.	main
"Guterres congratulated the people of Colombia and saw the 2016 peace agreement as ""a watershed for the country and an inspiration for all those striving to end deadly conflict around the world through negotiations,"" said Guterres' press office in a statement."	distant_evaluation
After more than five decades of fighting, insurgents have set aside violence for politics; elections have been the most peaceful in decades; innovative institutions of transitional justice are up and running, and plans have been crafted through broad participation to extend development to remote, conflict-affected regions, said the statement.	cause_general
Hard work remains to be done to consolidate these early gains of peace, it said.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The secretary-general is convinced that this goal can be achieved through a concerted effort involving the government and state institutions, political parties, the private sector and civil society, with the accompaniment of the international community."""	distant_evaluation
The statement voiced strong support of the United Nations for the Colombian people's efforts to preserve sustainable peace.	distant_evaluation
The Colombian government under then President Juan Manuel Santos secured a peace agreement with FARC rebels in November 2016 after four years of negotiations mostly in Havana, Cuba.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-07 02:23:10|Editor: yan	error
Griffiths said at a news conference at the opening of the consultations that the talks are being focused on Hodeidah, reopening airports, the economy, the worst humanitarian crisis in the world and releasing all prisoners.	distant_evaluation
Shortly before heading for Sweden, the government and the Houthis started arrangements for the release of all prisoners and detainees and all they need to agree on during the consultations is suitable mechanism to make that a reality.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""These political consultations in Sweden are the first step toward putting Yemen on the path to peace,"" Griffiths said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""I hope that by the end of this round, the Yemeni parties will agree on the outline of an eventual comprehensive agreement, which will then be submitted to the United Nations secretary general and then to the Security Council for endorsement,"" he added."	distant_expectations_consequences
Any peace agreement should be based on the UN resolutions, the Gulf Initiative, and the outcomes of the national dialog conference which was attended by all Yemeni factions during 2013, he pointed out.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Yemeni warring parties have held several rounds of peace talks since the conflict began after Houthis seized power in late 2014.	cause_general
However, all talks collapsed, leading to more violence on the ground.	cause_general
Observers argued that the Houthis will not accept to give up their arms and preconditions indicate all parties still don't have goodwill to reach a peace deal.	distant_evaluation
"Abbas Al-Dhaleai, a political commentator, said ""the political process after what Saudi Arabia has done and spent in Yemen means a defeat to Saudi Arabia."	distant_anecdotal
The Gulf kingdom will not accept defeat.	distant_anecdotal
Video Player Close	error
"It wants to disarm the Houthis, a thing that can't be achieved in reality."""	distant_anecdotal
"""The Houthis have been taking advantage of the Saudi-led coalition's confusion and political and military failures."	distant_anecdotal
But the most important thing is that they are not statesmen, but militants.	distant_anecdotal
"They can't imagine themselves living without arms,"" Al-Dhaleai added."	distant_anecdotal
Adil Al-Shuja'a, a politics professor from Sanaa university, said foreign actors don't want to end the conflict in Yemen because they want to sell more arms.	distant_evaluation
"""The U.S. President Donald Trump, for example, has been saying that the U.S. will continue to back the Saudi-led coalition, ignoring the high humanitarian cost of this war,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
"""Big powers such as the U.S., the UK and France have convinced the world that they are arms dealers, not peace makers,"" the professor added."	distant_evaluation
Peace talks between the Yemeni government and Houthi rebels, coordinated by the UN, started on Thursday at Johannesberg Castle, about 60 kilometers north of Stockholm, Sweden.	cause_general
The talks are expected to last for one week, depending on the consultations' progress, according to Hanan Eldawadi, chief public information officer at the office of the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Yemen (OSESGY).	distant_expectations_consequences
The Yemeni government delegation landed at Stockholm Arlanda Airport Wednesday afternoon, while the delegation of the Houthi rebels, together with Griffiths, arrived in Sweden on Tuesday evening.	cause_general
by Fuad Rajeh	error
ADEN, Yemen, Dec. 6 (Xinhua) -- UN-sponsored peace talks to build confidence between the Yemeni warring parties kicked off Thursday in Sweden in the first step to resume the political process which ceased in 2016.	main
However, the consultations are indirect, with the UN Special Envoy to Yemen, Martin Griffiths, talking to the delegations of the Houthi rebels and the Saudi-backed Yemeni government separately.	main
This is not a good start.	main
Also, controversial issues, especially Hodeidah, add complications to the political process.	distant_evaluation
The Yemeni government insists on retaking Hodeidah province where its forces, with support from a Saudi-led coalition, have been engaged in battles with the Houthis for months.	cause_general
Moreover, it insists on implementing the UN Security Council's resolution 2216 which calls for Houthis' withdrawal from cities and handover of heavy weapons.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-16 16:33:24|Editor: xuxin	error
"""The fundamental issue is whether two great countries can live together in a new world for international politics ... in which we find that we emphasize the importance of better relations and the importance of co-existence,"" said the 95-year-old diplomat and renowned strategist, who just returned from a trip to Beijing."	distant_evaluation
"""I think it can be done,"" said Kissinger, whose secret visit to China in the early 1970s broke the ice and paved the way for the normalization of U.S.-China relations,"	distant_expectations_consequences
"Calling himself a realist in international politics and a witness to many crises and their solutions, Kissinger hoped that both countries can act with the conviction that ""the practical problems before us are difficult, but the opportunity before us is to create an international system for the first time in world history in which peace and order are accepted by all the nations."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Echoing the U.S. experts' views, Chinese Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai, who braved the first snowfall on the East Coast and traveled all the way to New York from Washington D.C. for the event, also called for efforts to safeguard the sound development of bilateral ties for the benefits of both peoples and the world at large.	distant_evaluation
"Cui noted in his speech that despite the tremendous changes that have taken place in the world over all these years, the people of China and the United States have succeeded in ""building a strong and growing relationship between the two great countries."""	distant_evaluation
"More recently there have been some questioning or even challenges to that ""very good foundation of our relationship,"" Cui noted, calling for the abandonment of ""outdated Cold War mentality"" and ""belief in the zero-sum game of great powers."""	main
"Following an approach that emphasizes coordination and cooperation, ""we will be able to build an even stronger and more comprehensive, win-win relationship for our two countries,"" said the ambassador."	distant_expectations_consequences
Present at the NCUSCR gala were some 400 people, including experts, scholars, officials, diplomats and business representatives.	cause_general
At the event, Orlins noted that over the past 12 months, the Committee has conducted 177 public programs, dialogues and exchanges on U.S.-China relations.	cause_general
Founded in 1966, the NCUSCR is a non-partisan and non-profit organization dedicated to the promotion of understanding and cooperation between the United States and China.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Stephen A. Orlins, President of the U.S. National Committee on U.S.-China Relations (NCUSCR), addresses the 2018 Gala Dinner of the NCUSCR in New York, the United States, Nov. 15, 2018.	error
The United States and China must and will find ways to work together to make the world safer, more sustainable and prosperous, renowned U.S. experts said here on Thursday.	error
(Xinhua/Han Fang)	error
NEW YORK, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- The United States and China must and will find ways to work together to make the world safer, more sustainable and prosperous, renowned U.S. experts said here on Thursday.	main
"To make the world better and for the benefits of both peoples, the United States and China must ""work together to confront the real threats of climate change, terrorism, pandemics and economic crisis,"" said Stephen A. Orlins, president of the U.S. National Committee on U.S.-China Relations (NCUSCR), at its annual gala dinner in New York City."	main
Noting that ties between the world's two largest economies are now experiencing a difficult time, Orlins believed that in the end it is the people of the United States and China who will determine the future of the U.S.-China relationship.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Also at the gala dinner, Dr. Henry Kissinger, the former U.S. secretary of state, told the audience: ""I think we are now at a moment of fundamental importance in our relationship."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-05 23:01:39|Editor: yan	error
Faced with an angry public backlash, the government was then forced to backtrack on the decision again and announced that it would instead make Maassen an advisor to Seehofer.	cause_general
"Responding to the latest revelations surrounding Maassen's incendiary speech, SPD secretary general Lars Klingbeil criticized the departing BfV president's ""inappropriate"" statements and urged Seehofer to reach a final decision on his future at the interior ministry."	distant_evaluation
According to the Funke media group, Maassen has himself already requested to be retired rather than taking up the replacement post created for him at the interior ministry.	cause_general
"Today, a ""disappointed"" interior minister Seehofer personally informed the public that Maasen would be sent to early retirement because of ""inacceptable statements""."	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BERLIN, Nov. 5 (Xinhua) -- Hans-Georg Maassen, the controversial former president of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) in Germany, is considering launching a new career in politics instead of taking up a replacement post offered to him at the country's interior ministry, German media reported on Monday.	main
"The reports cited the transcript of a speech which Maassen recently delivered before the ""Bern Club"" of international intelligence chiefs and was subsequently sent to BfV employees in an internal message."	cause_specific
"""I can certainly also image a life outside of civil service, for example in politics or business,"" an excerpt of the document read."	cause_specific
The Maassen affair, which first began when the ex-BfV president publicly questioned the authenticity of video-footage depicting far-right violence in Chemnitz in September, has recently taken another twist as a consequence of the defiant speech.	cause_general
"Even before the full texts was published, media reported on Sunday that the interior ministry was preparing to retract an offer for Maassen to assume a new post there because he had doubled-down on earlier Chemintz-related comments and launched a searing attack on alleged ""left-radical"" elements in the German Social Democrat (SPD) party when addressing the ""Bern Club""."	distant_evaluation
"""From my perspective, this was a welcome opportunity for left-radical forces in the SPD which were always against as coalition with the CDU/CSU to provoke a break-up of this coalition,"" Maassen said."	distant_evaluation
"Earlier, the ruling ""grand coalition"" formed by the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), Christian Social Union (CSU) and SPD reached an awkward and ultimately short-lived compromise to remove Maassen from the BfV by transferring him to a more senior and better-paid position as secretary of state in the interior ministry led by Horst Seehofer (CSU)."	cause_general
VILNIUS, May 31 (Xinhua) -- Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite called for legislative changes to boost transparency in the country's political process on Thursday, following a probe by the Parliamentary Committee on Nation Security and Defense (NSGK) on business influence on politics.	main
"MG Baltic called the conclusions of the Committee ""a political farce and nothing more""."	distant_evaluation
"""These so called conclusions are a selective, politically motivated mix of rumors."	distant_evaluation
"Because of this process the entire business environment in Lithuania will suffer negative consequences,"" MG Baltic said in a statement."	distant_expectations_consequences
Vilniaus prekyba said the conclusions are false.	distant_evaluation
"""Vilniaus prekyba suffers huge damage to its reputation,"" the company told local media."	distant_evaluation
NSGK also concluded that there should be new investigations into the country's previous energy projects which involved state cooperation with private companies.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Committee also provided proposals on preventing influence of business groups on political processes, media regulation, and improving political parties' financial accountability.	cause_general
NSGK also proposed to establish the institution of intelligence ombudsman to help ensure better control of security services.	distant_expectations_consequences
Prime Minister Saulius Skvernelis says he backs the idea.	distant_evaluation
Opposition parties questioned the impartiality of the Committee's probe.	distant_evaluation
Grybauskaite said she hopes the findings of NSGK about the influence of business groups on politics would lead to real actions aimed at improving transparency in political processes.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""The results of the probe leave an impression of selectiveness and fragmentation,"" the head of the largest opposition party Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats Gabrielius Landsbergis said on Thursday in a statement."	distant_evaluation
He noted the probe didn't look into Agrokoncernas, the country's major fertilizer trading and agri-business company, tied to the leader of the country's ruling Peasants and Greens Union Ramunas Karbauskis.	cause_general
"""We hope the half-year work by the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defense would also lead to amendments and new judicial instruments to improve transparency in political processes,"" she said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Late on Wednesday, NSGK announced key findings and conclusions of its long-awaited probe into unlawful influence of business groups on political processes in Lithuania.	cause_specific
The key findings in the 48-page document are based on information provided by the country's State Security Department.	cause_specific
NSGK found out that large business groups tried to influence politicians, authorities and top decision-makers during the last ten years to benefit from major energy projects and public procurement.	cause_specific
The probe focused on activities of MG Baltic and Vilniaus prekyba, the country's two largest business groups, as well as representatives of Rosatom, Russia's State Atomic Energy Corporation, on influencing dismantle of Lithuania's nuclear power plant in Ignalina and the country's efforts to achieve energy independence.	cause_specific
"""We have to stop these people and cut that kind of operations,"" the head of NSGK Vytautas Bakas commented on the findings of the probe to local media."	distant_evaluation
"""We have to look at this from the perspective of national security, and if their activities are considered as contradictory to interests of national security, they have to be banned from strategic sectors,"" said Bakas."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-30 03:40:51|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
In general, a CDU chancellor is at the same time leader of the party in a bid to govern easily, and Merkel also said before the two positions should belong in one hand.	distant_evaluation
"""It's time to open a new chapter!"""	distant_evaluation
said Merkel at the press conference.	distant_evaluation
She added that she will not take any other political positions after the chancellorship term ends, dispelling some reports that she will serve in Brussels.	distant_expectations_consequences
Merkel has informed her decision to Horst Seehofer, leader of Christian Social Union (CSU) and Andrea Nahles, chairwoman of the German Social Democratic Party (SPD), the two parties in the current German federal coalition government.	cause_general
Merkel is CDU chairwoman since April 2000 and German Chancellor since November 2005.	cause_general
On March 14 this year she was sworn in for the fourth term as Chancellor in German federal parliament.	distant_historical
She successfully led the country to withstand the 2007/2008 international financial crisis, and led the EU out of a Eurozone debt crisis, winning worldwide prestige of her leadership.	cause_general
Her leadership, however, began to wither since the 2015 European refugee crisis, when she welcomed over one million refugees to enter Germany, triggering the rise of right-populist politics and the fragmentation of the country's party politics.	distant_evaluation
Merkel's Christian Democrats suffered a significant drop in 2017 September federal elections, but she could not help win back voters lost as she promised.	distant_historical
Video Player Close	error
Instead, the Merkel-led coalition government was stuck into quarrels over migration policy, an issue called as Merkel's Achilles Heel.	cause_general
Her announcement of initiating political withdrawal came after the state election in Hesse on Sunday, in which the CDU's votes decreased by more than 10 percent compared to the last election five years ago, while the environmentalist Green Party became the greatest winner and the right-populist Alternative fuer Deutschland (AfD) has successfully crossed the 5-percent threshold and entered all state parliaments in Germany.	cause_general
The setback in Hesse followed the similar one earlier this month that CSU, CDU's Bavaria-only ally, lost absolute majority in the state election.	cause_general
"""The image given by the government is unacceptable...As chancellor and the chairwoman of the CDU, I carry the responsibility both for the successes and for the failures,"" Merkel told the press conference, describing the results in Hesse as bitter and disappointing."	distant_evaluation
"""I am convinced that we have to stop,"" said Merkel, referring to the state elections in Hesse."	distant_evaluation
"""And I wish that we take yesterday's election day as a break, that we put everything to the test, which we have said and done since the election of the Bundestag until today."""	distant_evaluation
Merkel also confirmed the candidacy for the new CDU party leadership, including the party's secretary-general Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer and German Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn.	cause_general
"""I want my party gets the freedom to prepare well for the future,"" said Merkel."	distant_expectations_consequences
Merkel's renunciation as CDU leader put the coalition government at risk.	distant_evaluation
A Merkel loyalist and successor like Kramp-Karrenbauer will probably last longer, while a CDU leader like Spahn, a Merkel critic, will bring more uncertainties.	distant_expectations_consequences
German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends a press conference at the headquarters of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Berlin, capital of Germany, on Oct. 29, 2018.	error
SPD chairwoman Andrea Nahles said she saw no direct effects on the coalition government.	distant_evaluation
"She said Merkel has done an ""extraordinary"" job at the helm of the CDU, steering it out of deep crises."	distant_evaluation
Nahles said Merkel not only withstood criticism but also reorganized the content of the CDU and established a new style of leadership.	distant_evaluation
The CSU chairman Seehofer regretted the Merkel's renunciation as CDU chairwoman.	distant_evaluation
"""It's a pity,"" Seehofer was quoted by DPA, ""We have had some discussions, but it has always been a trusting, mutually respectful cooperation...And in that respect, I think it's a shame that this caesura should take place."""	distant_evaluation
The Greens' leader Annalena Baerbock praised that Merkel has opened the party for a modern image of society.	distant_evaluation
The Free Democratic Party (FDP) leader Christian Lindner, however, said at a press conference on Monday that Merkel gave up the wrong office, but the chancellorship.	distant_evaluation
"AfD leader Joerg Meuthen said that Merkel's decision to give up the CDU chairmanship was ""good news,"" saying that he expected her to ""give up her chancellorship soon."""	distant_expectations_consequences
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Monday that she would not run for another term as chancellor in 2021 when the current term ends.	error
(Xinhua/Lian zhen)	error
By Ren Ke, Zhang Yuan	error
BERLIN, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- Angela Merkel, the veteran German Chancellor and crisis manager, on Monday announced her withdrawal from political career after the chancellorship term ends.	main
The 64-year-old Merkel told a press conference at the headquarters of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) that she will remain as chancellor for the remainder of the legislature, which started this March and will end in 2021.	distant_expectations_consequences
In addition, she announced that she will not run again for CDU leadership at the party's next federal conference in Hamburg in December.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-08 04:50:26|Editor: yan	error
"Rather than preventing genocide, we are still reacting to it, often too late."""	main
Since the end of World War II, the international community has failed to prevent genocide in Cambodia, Rwanda, and Srebrenica in the former Yugoslavia, he noted.	cause_general
In the past two decades, the world has at least started to hold perpetrators to account, he said.	main
The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, and the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia have all convicted perpetrators for the crime of genocide.	cause_general
The work of these courts reflects a welcome resolve to punish perpetrators of genocide, he said.	main
The UN General Assembly in September 2015 designated Dec. 9 as the International Day of Commemoration and Dignity of the Victims of the Crime of Genocide and of the Prevention of this Crime.	distant_historical
Dec. 9 is the anniversary of the adoption of the 1948 Genocide Convention.	cause_general
The Genocide Convention was the first human rights treaty adopted by the United Nations.	cause_general
It embodies a collective determination to protect people from brutality and to prevent the repetition of the horrors witnessed by the world during World War II, said Guterres.	main
The convention has been ratified or acceded to by 149 states; 45 member states have not become party to it, noted Guterres.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
"""I urge those 45 states to consider becoming party as an urgent priority."	main
"Universal participation will send a unifying signal of resolve in this 70th anniversary year."""	main
He also called on those states that are already parties to the convention to back their commitments with action.	cause_general
"""Preventing and punishing genocide is the duty, the responsibility and the obligation of the entire international community."""	main
Guterres deplored the fact that 70 years after the adoption of the Genocide Convention, people are still being killed, raped, their homes torched, their lands confiscated -- just because of who they are.	cause_general
In Iraq, the violent extremists of the Islamic State brutally targeted the Yazidi people for murder, sexual slavery and trafficking.	cause_general
Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar were systematically killed, tortured, raped and burnt alive, victims of what has rightly been called ethnic cleansing, said Guterres.	main
Elsewhere around the world, racism, hate speech, violent misogyny, anti-semitism, Islamophobia and all forms of xenophobia are on the rise, he said.	main
"""We now know that dehumanizing language is not only evil in itself."	main
"It may also sow the seeds for far more evil acts, including genocide."""	main
UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 7 (Xinhua) -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Friday asked the international community to prevent rather than react to genocide as the crime does not happen overnight.	distant_evaluation
It is incumbent on all people, individually and collectively, to reject every single attempt to target people because of their nationality, ethnicity, religion or race, or any other form of identity, he said.	main
The UN chief encouraged people to speak out and help nurture the courage and the political will to act decisively, at the right time, and to support others when they take action.	cause_general
"""My generation believed that after the Holocaust, we would never see genocide again."	main
"We were wrong,"" said Guterres."	main
"""Modernity does not protect us from genocide."	main
The digital age does not protect us from genocide.	main
"Nothing but our own actions, based on our values and principles, can protect us from genocide."""	main
The Genocide Convention offers an essential legal framework for efforts to fight this crime, he said.	main
"""Genocide is deliberate and premeditated and requires serious preparations that take time."	main
"Those preparations should give the world time to act,"" Guterres told an event to mark the 70th anniversary of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide and the international day to commemorate genocide victims."	main
The Genocide Convention is preventive at its core, and punishes specific acts that are committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group, he said.	main
These acts include killing members of the group; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group; deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group; and forcibly transferring children of the group to another group.	cause_general
Preventing genocide means paying close attention to these provisions, said Guterres.	main
"""Tragically, the international community has sometimes failed to heed the warning signs and take early and decisive action."	main
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-04 07:59:47|Editor: ZX	error
"Fujimori's lawyer, Miguel Perez, said he would appeal the ruling, and added that the judge's decision ""is not an immediate order."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Perez stated that he had not yet been able to speak to Fujimori because the former president had just learned of the decision.	cause_general
Wednesday's ruling surprised politicians and Peruvians alike.	distant_evaluation
Despite the country's government, headed by President Martin Vizcarra, making good headway with anti-corruption reforms, the nation's Congress is controlled by opposition parties.	cause_general
The largest opposition party is the Popular Force (FP) party, led by Alberto Fujimori's daughter, Keiko Fujimori.	cause_general
"The visibly upset Keiko Fujimori declared the ruling to be ""persecution."""	distant_evaluation
"""Without doubt this is a persecution and not just against my family."	distant_evaluation
Enough.	distant_evaluation
"I feel the hate and cruelty from of all our political enemies,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
"""This decision is unjust, inhumane, and will be appealed,"" added the FP leader."	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
However, Salvador Heresi, leader of the Peruvians for Change (PPK) party which was founded by former President Kuczynski, requested that politicians accept the court's decision.	distant_evaluation
"""The Supreme Court must be respected by Congress,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
Heresi stressed that Peruvian politics already faces many challenges and that further questions over the ruling may be unhelpful.	distant_evaluation
The Supreme Court's decision came following a recommendation from the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which declared the pardon to be illegal.	cause_specific
LIMA, Oct. 3 (Xinhua) -- Peru's Supreme Court on Wednesday overturned the humanitarian pardon of ex-president, Alberto Fujimori, and ordered the former head of state be captured and returned to prison to serve the rest of his sentence for human rights abuses.	main
Judge Hugo Nunez Julca, president of the Supreme Investigation Court of the Supreme Court, declared that the pardon, granted in December 2017 by former president, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, was unlawful.	main
The pardon was heavily criticized by opposition and human rights groups, who claimed it was Kuczynski's attempt to avoid impeachment by allies of the former president.	distant_evaluation
Kuczynski resigned in March following the release of a video showing his allies trying to buy votes from opposition lawmakers ahead of a second impeachment vote in the corruption scandal.	distant_historical
Judge Julca ordered Fujimori, 80, be captured and returned to prison to see out the remaining 14 years of his 25 year sentence, the Supreme Court said through Twitter.	main
Fujimori, in power from 1990 to 2000, was sentenced in April 2009 for human rights abuses, including being responsible for the killings of 25 people, including an 8-year-old boy, in the Barrios Altos and La Cantuta neighborhoods of Lima.	distant_historical
The massacres were carried out by the paramilitary group Colina in 1991 and 1992 respectively.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-07 02:29:12|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
Video Player Close	error
TRIPOLI, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Libya's UN-backed Prime Minister Fayez Serraj on Sunday called on Russian companies to return to Libya.	main
Serraj made his remarks during a meeting with the Russian ambassador to Libya Ivan Molotkov in the capital Tripoli.	main
According to a statement issued by the PM's information office, the two officials discussed political developments in Libya, bilateral relations and cooperation between the two countries.	main
"""The Russian ambassador reiterated his country's support for the Government of National Accord, and expressed his country's keenness to enhance mutual cooperation and activate agreements signed between the two countries,"" the statement said."	distant_evaluation
"""The prime minister gave a brief overview on the government's economic reform that was launched in September, expressing hope for the return of Russian companies and investments to Libya,"" the statement added."	distant_expectations_consequences
Most foreign companies in Libya have left since 2014 when violent clashes between rival armed groups broke out in the capital Tripoli, leading to lingering political division across the country.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-03 10:10:18|Editor: WX	error
Video Player Close	error
"BRASILIA, Jan. 2 (Xinhua) -- Brazilian Foreign Minister Ernesto Araujo and visiting U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday agreed to broaden bilateral relations based on ""shared values."""	main
Pompeo, who was in Brasilia to attend the inauguration of President Jair Bolsonaro on Tuesday, met with Araujo for half an hour at the ministry's headquarters.	cause_specific
At a joint press conference following their talk, both stressed the potential to step up collaboration under the leadership of Bolsonaro.	cause_general
"""We want to build a much more intense partnership between Brazil and the United States,"" said Araujo, adding ""we have several concrete ideas for broadening this relationship."""	distant_evaluation
"Pompeo agreed the two nations were on the verge of a ""new stage"" in bilateral ties due to the similarities in thinking between Trump and Bolsonaro."	distant_evaluation
"This should lead to ""great opportunities"" in several fields, ""and also in the area of security,"" said the U.S. envoy."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-03 13:15:43|Editor: WX	error
Video Player Close	error
PANAMA CITY, Jan. 2 (Xinhua) -- Establishing diplomatic relations with China in 2017 is a great benefit to Panama, President Juan Carlos Varela said Wednesday.	main
In his latest state of the nation report to the National Assembly, Varela described establishing diplomatic ties with China as one of the key achievements in his five-year presidency, which ends this summer.	main
"""That was a decision of the state, taken with transparency, thinking always of the best interests of the nation and future generations,"" said Varela."	distant_evaluation
The central American country established diplomatic relations with China on June 13, 2017.	distant_historical
"""It is undeniable that establishing the new diplomatic ties will bring Panamanians investment, employment, economic growth, tourism, cultural exchanges and well-being,"" Varela said."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 02:24:19|Editor: yan	error
The new Congress also seats a record number of female lawmakers and is the most racially and ethnically diverse, including a new generation of Muslims, Latinos, Native Americans and African-Americans.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- The 116th U.S. Congress officially convened Thursday noon, with Democrats taking control of the House and Republicans remaining their majority in the Senate.	main
Democrats have a 235-199 majority in the House, with one seat still in dispute after allegations of election fraud in the state of North Carolina.	main
Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, is expected to be elected as House speaker.	distant_expectations_consequences
The House is holding a roll call vote on Pelosi's speakership.	cause_general
Vice President Mike Pence, who also serves as the president of the Senate, swore in new members of the upper chamber, where 53 Republicans hold the majority over 45 Democrats and two independents aligning with Democrats.	cause_general
The new Congress convened amid a partial shutdown of the federal government, now in its 13th day over an impasse between the White House and the Congress about funding for President Donald Trump's long-promised border wall.	cause_general
"The House is expected to hold a series of votes aimed at ending the shutdown but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Wednesday that he had made it clear to Pelosi that the Republican-controlled Senate were not interested in Democrats' ""show votes."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 03:39:35|Editor: Chengcheng	error
It is part of NATO assurance and deterrence measures introduced in 2014, according to the ministry.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
OTTAWA, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- Canada's Air Task Force (ATF) has completed its four-month deployment with NATO's enhanced Air Policing in Romania, according to the Canadian Ministry of National Defense Thursday.	main
ATF-Romania is composed of approximately 135 Canadian Armed Forces personnel and five CF-18 Hornets.	cause_general
It is Canada's third ATF deployment to Romania on Operation REASSURANCE.	cause_general
The first was from April to August 2014 to the Romanian Air Force 71st Air Base in Campia Turzii, and the second was from September to December 2017 to Constanta.	distant_historical
After its mission completion, ATF-Romania members are expected to return to Canada this month.	distant_expectations_consequences
ATF-Romania is the component of Operation REASSURANCE for air policing mission in Central and Eastern Europe.	cause_general
NATO's enhanced Air Policing is a collective defence mission, which safeguards the integrity of the alliance's airspace.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-04 05:10:04|Editor: Chengcheng	error
"In her floor speech upon accepting the speaker's gavel, Pelosi said that the House floor must be ""America's Town Hall"" where people's voices will be heard and affect lawmakers' decisions as she was trying to set a bipartisan tone for the new Congress."	distant_expectations_consequences
"She previewed her party's long-term priorities, including tackling climate change, lowering health care costs, investing in ""green"" infrastructure and ""restoring integrity"" to government, while hinting at measures to end a partial government dragging into the 13th day on Thursday."	distant_expectations_consequences
"""Democrats will be offering the Senate Republican appropriations legislation to re-open government later today,"" Pelosi said."	distant_expectations_consequences
About a quarter of the federal government shut down last month as a result of an impasse between the White House and the Congress over whether to provide billions of U.S. dollars for President Donald Trump's long-promised border wall.	cause_general
"Pelosi said in a clip airing on MSNBC on Wednesday that she's willing to give ""nothing for the wall,"" while Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said the upper chamber won't consider any bills without the president's support."	distant_expectations_consequences
"Christopher Galdieri, assistant professor at Saint Anselm College, told Xinhua that he expects ""the shutdown fight to continue take up most of the oxygen"" in Washington."	distant_expectations_consequences
The convening of the new Congress also comes at a time when Pelosi and her party are poised to confront the White House and the Republican agenda with their House majority, as Democratic lawmakers have vowed to conduct more oversight onto the Trump administration.	cause_general
An effective legislator and political strategist, Pelosi played a key role in last year's midterm elections that saw Democrats seize control of the House for the first time in eight years by helping raise millions of dollars for Democratic candidates and keep them focus on the issue of health care on their campaign trails.	cause_general
The new Congress Pelosi's now presiding over seats a record number of female lawmakers and is the most racially and ethnically diverse, including a new generation of Muslims, Latinos, Native Americans and African-Americans.	cause_general
"The new speaker said she welcomes the ""transformative freshman class."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
In overall, Democrats have a 235-199 majority in the House, with one seat still in dispute after allegations of election fraud in the state of North Carolina.	cause_general
In the Senate, 53 Republicans hold the majority over 45 Democrats and two independents aligning with Democrats.	cause_general
Nancy Pelosi (C) is surrounded by children after being elected the new speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C., the United States, on Jan. 3, 2019.	error
Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, was elected the new speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday, the first day of a new, divided Congress.	error
(Xinhua/Ting Shen)	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, was elected the new speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday, the first day of a new, divided Congress.	main
Pelosi, 78, is the only woman who has held the office before and is among a few elected officials to return to the post.	cause_general
She was the House speaker from 2007 to 2011 when her Democratic Party controlled the lower chamber.	distant_historical
For her second speakership, Pelosi defeated Republican nominee Kevin McCarthy in a roll-call vote Thursday, winning 220 votes out of a total of 430 present, according to CNN.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 00:39:44|Editor: yan	error
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will visit eight Middle East countries in the following weeks, discussing issues of Syria, Iran and Yemen among others, said the U.S. State Department on Friday.	main
Pompeo's eight-day trip will kick off next Monday, during which he will visit Saudi Arabia and discuss bilateral and regional priorities with the country's leaders including Yemen, Iran, and Syria, said Robert Palladino, the department's deputy spokesperson, in a statement.	main
During his stay, Pompeo will seek an update on the investigation into the death of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Palladino added.	main
The top U.S. diplomat will also travel to Cairo, the capital city of Egypt, where he will meet with Egyptian leaders to discuss Iran, Palestinian-Israeli issue, counter-terrorism, as well as economic and energy cooperation, according to the statement.	main
Pompeo's trip, which also covers Jordan, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait, came amid lingering tension in the region over the U.S. decision to withdraw troops from Syria, escalating confrontation with Iran among others.	cause_general
Khashoggi was murdered inside the Saudi consulate in Turkey in October, 2018 and a number of top Saudi officials were arrested in connection with the case.	distant_historical
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 03:25:20|Editor: yan	error
He had also served in the House for 16 years.	distant_historical
His retirement is set to spark interest in his seat from other Kansas Republicans, signaling a potentially crowed 2020 primary.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republicans expect the seat to remain safely in their control as Kansas has not sent a Democrat to the Senate since the 1930s.	distant_expectations_consequences
Roberts is the second Republican senator to announce not to seek re-election in 2020, following Tennessee's Lamar Alexander.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- U.S.	main
Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican, said Friday that he will not seek re-election in 2020.	main
Roberts, 82, has served in the U.S. Senate since 1997.	cause_general
He last won reelection in 2014.	distant_historical
"""I will serve the remainder of this term as your senator, fighting for Kansas in these troubled times,"" Roberts announced in Topeka, state of Kansas."	distant_evaluation
"""However, I will not be a candidate in 2020 for a fifth Senate term."""	main
Roberts, the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has helped craft eight farm bills during his tenure.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 04:00:31|Editor: yan	error
Currently, the U.S. inflation rate remains below what the Fed considers an optimal 2 percent level, meaning there is still space for economic expansion and workers are just beginning to benefit from the growth.	distant_expectations_consequences
"The Fed raised its benchmark interest rate four times in 2018, with the latest announced on Dec. 19, when Powell said his institution's policy decisions are ""not on a preset course."""	distant_evaluation
"Echoing that assertion, the central banker said at the Atlanta event that the Fed was ready to change course ""significantly if necessary."""	distant_evaluation
Powell denied the criticism that the Fed's gradual reduction of its holdings of Treasuries, mortgage bonds and other assets - amounting to 4.5 trillion dollars when the Fed began its balance sheet normalization program in Oct. 2017 - had exacerbated the stock market turbulence in the fourth quarter of 2018.	distant_evaluation
"""We don't believe our issuance is an important part of the story,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
At the same time, he reassured investors of the Fed's flexibility.	distant_evaluation
"""If we ever came to the conclusion that any aspect of our plans"" was part of a problem, ""we wouldn't hesitate to change it."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts predicted that job reports for January and February will be more of a policy reference for the Fed than the December report as they would provide a clearer picture of how tightened financial conditions affect the U.S. economy.	distant_expectations_consequences
The central bank will convene its first policy meeting this year on Jan. 29 and 30, followed by a second at the end of March.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday signaled patience in the central bank's policy contemplation for this year despite a higher-than-expected job growth data released on the same day.	distant_evaluation
"At a panel discussion in Atlanta with former Fed chairs Janet Yellen and Ben Bernanke, Powell said economic data suggest ""ongoing momentum heading into 2019,"" adding that Fed officials will be ""patient"" as they ""watch to see how the economy evolves."""	distant_evaluation
The central bank chief's remarks came on the heels of a report released Friday by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics showing U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by a seasonally adjusted 312,000 in December, well above the average monthly job gains of 254,000 for the last three months and the strongest average employment increase in more than two years.	main
That robust figure, however, will not as of now change the Fed's plan to conduct two rate hikes this year, as the central bank awaits more economic indicators coming in the next few months.	distant_expectations_consequences
The December job report also indicated that unemployment rate was up 0.2 percentage point month-on-month to 3.9 percent, and that average hourly earnings for all employees on private nonfarm payrolls rose 11 cents, or 0.4 percent over November, to 27.48 U.S. dollars.	main
"""That's quite welcome,"" Powell said."	distant_evaluation
"""And also, for me at this time, it does not raise concerns about too-high inflation."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 06:46:01|Editor: yan	error
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. State Department announced on Friday that it has filled in a key position in fighting the Islamic State (IS) following an abrupt resignation of a senior official in protest against U.S. troops withdrawal from Syria.	main
James Jeffrey, the current U.S. Special Representative for Syria Engagement, will take on the additional role of the Special Envoy to the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS (IS) after the departure of Brett McGurk, said the department's deputy spokesperson Robert Palladino in a statement.	main
McGurk resigned from the post late December following the White House's decision to exit U.S. troops from Syria.	cause_specific
The withdrawal plan also prompted the resignation of former U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis.	cause_specific
The United States has deployed troops to Syria fighting the IS since 2015, and there are more than 2,000 U.S. soldiers in Syria currently.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-05 12:41:51|Editor: Xiang Bo	error
"Although Embraer was privatized in 1994, the Brazilian government owns a special ""golden share"" which gives it veto power on important decisions, such as the transfer of control of the company, interruption to the provision of military aircraft parts, and a change of its name."	cause_specific
Founded in 1969, Embraer is a world leader in regional aircraft manufacturing.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
BRASILIA, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro expressed doubts on Friday over the merger between Brazilian aviation company Embraer and U.S. company Boeing, which has been in talks since last year.	main
At a press conference at Brasilia's air base held after the inauguration of the new commander of Aeronautics, Bolsonaro said that the latest proposal, presented in December, could affect the interests of Brazilians, but did not go further into detail.	distant_evaluation
"""It's our heritage."	distant_evaluation
"We know of the need of this merger, for its (Embraer's) competitiveness, so it doesn't disappear over time,"" said Bolsonaro, who was sworn in as Brazil's president on Tuesday."	distant_evaluation
The proposed merger between Embraer and Boeing would include the commercial aviation area of Embraer and associated services, in which Boeing has an 80 percent share and Embraer has 20 percent.	cause_general
During the final days of former president Michel Temer's government last month, the Finance Ministry was notified of the merger, with a period of 30 days to contest the legality of it.	cause_general
The legal opinion will be up to the Attorney General's Office of National Treasury, and the government will make a decision on the basis of the opinion.	main
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 06:55:39|Editor: yan	error
Only New York City residents are eligible to participate in this program.	cause_general
However, NYC Comptroller Scott Stringer said in a press release that as the city significantly scaled back initial eligibility to just a small subset of Cash Assistance and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program recipients, two of the city's social service programs, a majority of poor people will continue to face a significant financial burden to purchase a MetroCard.	distant_evaluation
"""Hundreds of thousands of families will still struggle to get to work or a job interview because they can't afford a full fare."	distant_evaluation
"For their sake, we need to make sure this delay doesn't become a derailment,"" said Stringer."	distant_evaluation
The federal poverty line stood at 25,100 dollars for a family of four.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
NEW YORK, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- The majority of the estimated 800,000 New York city (NYC) residents living below the poverty line who were originally promised half-price Metrocards may not be able to receive the benefit, according to the city's Comptroller office.	distant_evaluation
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the launch of Fair Fare program on Friday, saying that more than a hundred thousand New Yorkers are about to have the doors of opportunity opened for them thanks to the program.	main
"""Our subway system began in 1904 and there has never been a time where low-income New Yorkers received discounted service,"" said de Blasio."	cause_general
Using the Fair Fares MetroCard, eligible New York City residents may buy either an unlimited 7-day or 30-day pass for 16 U.S. dollars or 60.5 dollars respectively.	main
During the first phase of the program, Fair Fares MetroCards will be available to about 25,000 New Yorkers who are existing clients of the NYC Department of Social Services.	main
These individuals will receive letters informing them of their eligibility.	cause_general
By mid-2019, the city expects to offer an additional 170,000 New Yorkers with lower incomes the chance to participate in Fair Fares NYC.	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 06:40:35|Editor: WX	error
Video Player Close	error
New York, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- New York City has raised its minimum wage to 15 U.S. dollars an hour this year in an effort to fight against poverty.	main
The new minimum wage, which is set at 15 dollars per hour for all businesses with 11 employees or more, went into effect on the last day of 2018.	main
For businesses with 10 employees or less, the minimum wage they have to pay is 13.5 dollars per hour.	main
By the end of this year, these businesses will also have to pay 15 dollars an hour to their employees.	main
Approximately 1.5 million people will have seen their wages rise by the end of 2019, according to the New York city comptroller's office.	distant_expectations_consequences
"The city mayor Bill de Blasio said on Twitter that ""it wouldn't have happened without the working people who make this city run every single day demanding a raise they deserve."""	distant_evaluation
"New York city's move to raise minimum wage is seen as a milestone achievement for the ""Fight for $15"" movement, which was once thought of as a pipe dream and was initiated by fast food workers six years ago."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2019-01-06 05:50:28|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
"The Pence readout said there was ""no in depth conversation about dollar figure"" for funding the wall but ""the priorities for security."""	distant_evaluation
"Pence also reiterated Trump's position that ""we need funding for the border wall."""	distant_evaluation
Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, also attended the meeting in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building along with Trump's acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen.	cause_general
They were negotiating with senior staff for congressional Democratic leadership.	cause_general
"Nielsen briefed the negotiators on the situation on the U.S.-Mexico border, according to the readout, adding that the Democratic side ""requested further details in writing on the needs"" of her department."	distant_evaluation
"Trump dug in on his proposal again Saturday morning, tweeting that ""we are working hard at the Border, but we need a WALL!"""	distant_evaluation
The president said Friday after meeting with congressional Democratic leaders that he was prepared for a partial government shutdown to last for months or even years if they don't agree to provide funding for border security, including the wall.	distant_evaluation
He also signaled a possibility of using emergency powers to build the wall without congressional approval and necessary funds.	distant_expectations_consequences
House Democrats passed a spending package earlier this week, including a stopgap bill to keep the Homeland Security Department funded at the current level until Feb. 8, and measures to fund the eight other cabinet departments affected by the shutdown through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year.	cause_general
However, those measures are unlikely to be taken up by the Republican-held Senate or be signed by Trump as they do not provide money for Trump's border wall.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
U.S. President Donald Trump (C) speaks during a press conference at the White House Rose Garden in Washington D.C., the United States, on Jan. 4, 2019.	error
Trump said Friday that he's prepared for a partial government shutdown to last for months or years, after his meeting with Congressional leaders yielded no deal on funding for a U.S.-Mexico border wall.	error
(Xinhua/Ting Shen)	error
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- Senior Trump administration officials and Democratic congressional staffers met Saturday without achieving any breakthrough in ending a partial government shutdown and breaking a deadlock over funding for a proposed U.S.-Mexico border wall.	main
"A readout provided by the office of Vice President Mike Pence, who led the administration's team, said ""the conversation was productive"" and both sides agreed to meet again Sunday afternoon."	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump is demanding over 5 billion U.S. dollars in border security to deliver his signature campaign promise to build a wall along the U.S. southern border with Mexico, which has strongly rejected by Democrats.	cause_specific
Their disagreement has led to a budget impasse and a partial government shutdown, which enters its 15th day Saturday, affecting nine cabinet-level departments and dozens of agencies as well as jobs and paychecks of some 800,000 federal employees.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-10-04 04:57:25|Editor: Shi Yinglun	error
Media commentators, usually ultra-critical of leaders' speeches, hailed her plucky performance and her speech.	distant_evaluation
"""The best speech I've ever seen May deliver,"" said one political writer, while another said: ""Best speech of May's premiership."	distant_anecdotal
Ends conference on a high, cements her position as leader.	distant_anecdotal
But nothing has changed.	distant_anecdotal
"The Brexit reckoning is delayed."""	distant_anecdotal
The Guardian's summary was that political commentators had generally been very positive, with some thinking it's her best yet.	distant_evaluation
Although, added the Guardian, there is quite a lot of skepticism about whether she can deliver.	distant_evaluation
In her speech, May promised to deliver the Brexit the British people had voted for and there would be no referendum or people's vote -- laid into the prospect of a Labour government led by its leader Jeremy Corbyn.	distant_expectations_consequences
She announced local councils would be free to borrow as much as they wanted too for a massive social house building program.	distant_expectations_consequences
She also threw in that a decade of austerity was finally over for Britain.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
The auditorium packed with Conservative Party loyalists gave her a standing ovation before heading home with a message in their ears that Britain must remain united as it plans its life away from the European Union (EU).	cause_general
Political opponents, however, were not as enthused as Conservative supporters of May.	distant_evaluation
"Labour's Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell, said: ""Theresa May's claim that austerity is over is a con."	distant_evaluation
"If the Prime Minister wants to back up her words with action, Philip Hammond should announce immediately that the cuts scheduled for the next four years will be cancelled."""	distant_evaluation
"""If he cannot, or will not, then Theresa May's announcement today was not just empty -- it was clearly a deceitful attempt to trick the public."""	distant_evaluation
"Ian Lavery, chair of the main opposition Labour Party, said: While the country is crying out for real change, all Theresa May and her party offer are pinched ideas and tinkering around at the edges, relying on petty attacks to cover up their lack of vision."""	distant_evaluation
"""Austerity is not an economic necessity."	distant_evaluation
It is a political choice made by the Conservatives to hack away at our public services and communities, leaving workers worse off while gifting huge tax cuts to big business.	distant_evaluation
"And as long as Britain has a Conservative prime minister, we'll never see an end to austerity."""	distant_evaluation
"Vince Cable, leader of the minority Liberal Democrats said: ""As somebody who takes dancing seriously, I was delighted to see Theresa May show that she is developing her new hobby."	distant_evaluation
Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May dances to the stage to give a speech during the Conservative Party annual conference 2018 in Birmingham, Britain on Oct. 3, 2018.	error
"But she was dancing on the head of a pin, confronted by an audience full of people plotting to oust her."""	distant_evaluation
"Cable said that May said the Conservatives must be a party for the whole country, adding ""yet she has overseen widening divisions in our society."	distant_evaluation
"Trapped by the rabid ideologues of the Conservative right-wing, Mrs May has been driven to illiberal extremes on Brexit, welfare and immigration."""	distant_evaluation
The Local Government Association which represents hundreds of town halls and city halls, described her decision to lift the borrowing cap for building houses as fantastic.	distant_evaluation
"Its chairman Lord Porter said: ""Our national housing shortage is one of the most pressing issues we face and it is clear that only an increase of all types of housing, including those for affordable or social rent, will solve the housing crisis."""	distant_evaluation
"Away from politics, the Confederation of British Industry director general Carolyn Fairbairn, said: ""The Prime Minister's unambiguous call to back business is welcome."	distant_evaluation
Unity in politics can be matched by unity between government and business.	distant_evaluation
"Championing a pro-enterprise economy is the only way to show the world that Britain is a fantastic place to create the products and services that power growth."""	distant_evaluation
"""A new relationship with Europe based on the Chequers model with frictionless trade has strong business support."	distant_evaluation
The Prime Minister has stood her ground, resisting the fiction that a Canada-style deal works for jobs.	distant_evaluation
"British Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday ruled out the possibility of a second Brexit referendum, saying the second referendum would be a ""politicians' vote."""	error
"Now politicians should support her to get a deal -- and the critical withdrawal agreement -- over the line."""	distant_evaluation
"""Brexit must not suck the oxygen out of domestic policy."	distant_evaluation
Here too there will be support from firms large and small.	distant_expectations_consequences
"A renewed approach to housing and education will lift productivity and improve people's lives,"" added Fairbairn."	distant_expectations_consequences
"James Forsyth, political editor of the Spectator magazine and a columnist at the Sun newspaper said: ""May delivers one of her best speeches, and will send activists home in better heart than they expected this morning."""	distant_expectations_consequences
But he added that with May facing a crucial meeting of the European Council in two weeks, Brexit will soon reassert itself.	distant_expectations_consequences
(Xinhua/Han Yan)	error
LONDON, Oct. 3 (Xinhua) -- British Prime Minister Theresa May stole the show as she brought the four-day Conservative Party Conference to a close Wednesday in Birmingham.	main
A year ago everything that could go wrong did go wrong, with May struggling to make her speech because of a throat infection, and suffering of the platform backdrop falling apart.	distant_historical
"Dancing onto the stage to the tune of Swedish pop group ABBA's hit ""Dancing Queen"", May mocked herself, jokingly saying if she lost her voice it was because she had been up half of the night super gluing the stage set."	cause_general
"Though Labour MP Angela Rayner described the dance with the hashtag cringe, Scottish National Party MP Joanna Cherry said May's dance was ""an affront to my favorite song""."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-03-02 01:28:44|Editor: Liangyu	error
Xi said China and the Pacific island countries including Tonga were good friends and partners.	distant_evaluation
"""It is put forward at the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) that China will advance a new form of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice, and win-win cooperation and a community with a shared future for mankind,"" Xi said."	distant_expectations_consequences
He called on both countries to enhance exchanges at all levels and strengthen political mutual trust, continue to support and understand each other on issues concerning sovereignty, territory integrity and national dignity.	distant_expectations_consequences
Xi encouraged the two countries to expand communication and exchanges between government departments and legislature bodies, dig up potential in cooperation in various areas and forge ahead with cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative.	distant_expectations_consequences
Noting that China knows well the challenges small developing island countries such as Tonga faced with during their economic and social development, Xi said China was willing to continue to provide Tonga with economic and technological assistance within its capability and would never attach any political conditions to such assistance.	distant_evaluation
He said China would fulfill all its promises to let more local people benefit from China-Tonga cooperation.	distant_evaluation
Xi also said that China would like to enhance cooperation with Tonga on climate change and strengthen exchanges with Pacific island countries.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tupou VI, who arrived in Beijing Wednesday for a nine-day state visit, first congratulated the Communist Party of China (CPC) on the successful conclusion of the 19th National Congress.	distant_evaluation
"Speaking highly of Xi's ""visionary and talented leadership,"" Tupou VI said he believed that China would score even greater achievements under Xi's leadership."	distant_expectations_consequences
He said Tonga attached great importance to the relationship with China and appreciated China's support and assistance to the country, especially the assistance provided immediately after it was hit by a recent hurricane.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
"""Tonga agrees with China on its vision to build a new type of international relations and stands ready to work with China to build a community with a shared future for mankind,"" the King said."	distant_expectations_consequences
He said Tonga firmly adhered to the one-China policy.	distant_evaluation
Noting that Tonga was willing to enhance cooperation with China in areas including trade, infrastructural construction and under the Belt and Road Initiative, Tupou VI said he hoped China could help Tonga to realize greater development and address the challenges posed by climate change.	distant_expectations_consequences
Tonga supports China in deepening ties with Pacific island countries, he said.	distant_evaluation
After the talks, the two countries signed seven agreements in areas including economic and technological cooperation, human resources and education with the witness of the two heads of state.	main
The two countries issued a joint press communique Thursday.	cause_general
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang also met with King Tupou VI Thursday afternoon in Beijing.	cause_general
Li called on the two countries to consolidate political trust, expand pragmatic cooperation, enhance people-to-people exchanges and integrate the Belt and Road Initiative and Tonga's development strategy.	distant_evaluation
"""China supports the major production projects, infrastructure and projects related to people's well-being in Tonga,"" Li said, adding that ""China is willing to have agricultural technology exchanges with Tonga, and the Chinese market also welcomes high-quality agricultural and fishery products from Tonga."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Li also extended his condolences over the tropical cyclone damage in Tonga and reiterated that China would offer as much help as possible.	distant_expectations_consequences
Chinese President Xi Jinping (2nd R) and his wife Peng Liyuan (1st R) pose for a group photo with Tonga's King Tupou VI (2nd L) and his wife Queen Nanasipau'u, in Beijing, capital of China, March 1, 2018.	error
King Tupou VI said Tonga was ready to cooperate more with China in education, infrastructure, agriculture and food to realize win-win results.	distant_expectations_consequences
Besides Beijing, Tupou VI will also visit the eastern province of Zhejiang and southern provinces of Hainan and Guangdong during his nine-day stay in China.	cause_general
Xi held talks with Tonga's King Tupou VI on Thursday.	error
(Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)	error
BEIJING, March 1 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks in Beijing with Tonga's King Tupou VI Thursday, and they agreed to further promote the strategic partnership between China and Tonga.	main
During their talks held in the Great Hall of the People, Xi said King Tupou VI has made historic contribution to China-Tonga ties and he hoped that the royal family of Tonga would continue to play a positive role in the development of bilateral ties.	distant_expectations_consequences
This year marks 20th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tonga diplomatic ties.	cause_general
Tupou VI came to China in the capacity of foreign and defense minister 20 years ago to sign a communique to establish diplomatic relations.	distant_historical
File Photo: Yemeni protesters take part in an anti-U.S. protest in Sanaa, Yemen, on May 20, 2017.	error
"""Today we tell the despotic government of Saudi Arabia that we will not be part of their military adventures,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
"""So let us go forward today ... and tell the world that the United States of America will not continue to be part of the worst humanitarian disaster on the face of the earth."""	distant_evaluation
The resolution condemning Saudi Arabia's role in Khashoggi's death was introduced by senators like Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker and majority leader Mitch McConnell, both of whom are Republicans.	cause_general
The two resolutions, unlikely to either get passed by the House or approved by U.S. President Donald Trump, were seen as largely symbolic, U.S. media reported.	distant_expectations_consequences
Pompeo and Mattis had briefed the full House on the U.S.-Saudi relations, especially the Yemen conflict and the case of Khashoggi in a classified condition.	cause_general
Khashoggi has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities said he died in a ""brawl"" in the consulate, and denied that the Saudi crown prince had ordered the killing."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 Saudis were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
The U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation into his death, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia, such as sanctions and suspension of military support for the Saudi-led attack in Yemen, if those responsible were not held accountable.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the Trump administration has been reluctant to further punish the Saudi government.	distant_evaluation
U.S. President Donald Trump began an official visit to Saudi Arabia.	cause_general
"Pompeo said in a recent article that the death of Khashoggi has ""heightened the Capitol Hill caterwauling and media pile-on."""	distant_evaluation
(Xinhua/Mohammed Mohammed)	error
WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 (Xinhua) -- In unusual pushbacks against the Trump administration, the GOP-controlled U.S. Senate on Thursday voted to recommend ending U.S. military assistance to the Saudi-led operation in Yemen, and accused Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of involvement in the death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
Immediately after the 56-41 vote on a resolution concerning the Yemen conflict, the Senate unanimously passed a separate one that blames the Saudi crown prince for Khashoggi's murder and urges Saudi Arabia to hold accountable anyone responsible for his death.	main
In the first resolution, lawmakers recommended that the U.S. government should stop its backing of the Saudi-led operation in Yemen, despite the briefings of senior officials like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Defense James Mattis last month.	main
"In the second resolution, the Senate believed that the Saudi crown prince is ""responsible for the murder"" of Khashoggi, and urging the Saudi Arabian government to ""ensure appropriate accountability."""	main
The bipartisan votes came amid the Capitol Hill's growing outrage over high civilian casualties in Yemen, plus U.S. intelligence officials' reported conclusion that the Saudi leader must have at least known the murder of Khashoggi.	cause_specific
"Independent Senator Bernie Sanders, who co-sponsored the Yemen resolution with Republican Senator Mike Lee, said the vote has shown the Senate's view ""that the constitutional responsibility for making war rests with the United States Congress."""	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-02 09:22:04|Editor: Chengcheng	error
"He reiterated that corruption, ""a disaster for the country,"" must be resolved because ""it is key to Mexico's development."""	distant_evaluation
"He also reaffirmed his campaign promises of moving the country forward and boosting investments, which he assured ""are secure in Mexico."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"During his speech, he affirmed his commitment that he will ""not allow anyone to take advantage of his position to take funds from the (country's) treasury."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"Lopez Obrador also said Mexico will maintain ""good relations with all the peoples and governments of the world"" and will join the international agenda on issues such as immigration, the environment and defending human rights, among others."	distant_expectations_consequences
"He said he plans to begin working with the United States and Canada to ""go further"" than what is outlined in the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement signed on Friday in Buenos Aires on the sidelines of the G20 Summit."	distant_expectations_consequences
"The intention to seek investments to ""boost development in Central American countries as well as ours"" is a measure to stop the migration phenomena, he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"His government, he said, is to stick to the constitutional ideals of ""non-intervention, self-determination of the people and peaceful settlement of disputes and cooperation for development."""	distant_expectations_consequences
Lopez Obrador, candidate of the left-of-center National Regeneration Movement, won the July 1 presidential election by a wide margin.	cause_specific
Video Player Close	error
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador delivers a speech during the inauguration in Mexico City, capital of Mexico, on Dec. 1, 2018.	error
The inauguration of Mexican President-elect Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador was held here on Saturday.	error
(Xinhua/Xin Yuewei)	error
MEXICO CITY, Dec. 1 (Xinhua) -- Mexico's new President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador took office Saturday morning at a solemn ceremony in the Mexican Congress.	main
Lopez Obrador arrived at 11:14 a.m. local time (1714 GMT) along with outgoing President Enrique Pena Nieto.	cause_general
In front of 500 deputies and 128 senators, as well as special guests from the country and abroad, Lopez Obrador received the presidential sash.	cause_general
"In his first message to the nation as president, Lopez Obrador committed himself to fighting ""the filthy corruption, public and private"" in Mexico."	distant_expectations_consequences
Source: Xinhua| 2018-09-20 22:34:19|Editor: Liangyu	error
Abe, following his victory, was quick to reiterate his plans to forge ahead with his career goal of revising the nation's Supreme Law for the first time since World War II, having controversially and against public and constitutional experts' opinions redefined the role of the Self-Defense Forces (SDF) three years ago, to allow it to take part in collective-self defense and come to the aid of an ally under attack, even if its own territory is not threatened.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Henceforth, Abe will thus seek to secure the two-thirds majority needed in both houses of parliament and a majority in a national referendum to bring about his legacy-led revisions to the constitution, which will specifically make reference to the SDF and ""purportedly"" clear up its current constitutional ambiguity."	distant_expectations_consequences
However, as recent polls have suggested, the Japanese public are far more concerned about the dire fiscal health of the nation, rather than the prime minister's singular goal of revising the Supreme Law for the first time since it took effect in 1947.	distant_evaluation
Abe's reasons for constitutional reform are both personal and political.	distant_evaluation
He is a long-time devotee of constitutional reform and has used geopolitical pretexts to push forward his reforms, noted Tina Burrett, Associate Professor of Political Science at Sophia University.	distant_evaluation
"""The public are split on the issue of reform... for most voters, however, the economy and public services are far more important issues,"" she said."	distant_evaluation
Her sentiments have been echoed by other experts on the matter, with Yu Uchiyama, a political scientist at the University of Tokyo, believing Abe's constitutional agenda is far from a straightforward one, with a public mandate on the issue possibly going awry.	distant_evaluation
"""Even if Abe manages to force a revision through parliament, he would face a referendum, raising the prospect of a Brexit-style political meltdown if the people vote against him,"" Uchiyama said."	distant_expectations_consequences
With public support for the premier and his Cabinet tepid at best amid myriad cronyism scandals and economic malaise perpetrated by a vastly unclear blueprint as to how to deal with the nation's ballooning social welfare costs related to its rapidly aging and shrinking society, security issues are currently not a public priority, political experts have attested.	distant_evaluation
Christian Collet, from International Christian University's Politics and International Relations faculty maintained that the Japanese populace believe that Article 9 of Japan's pacifist charter, that states that Japanese people forever renounce war and that land, sea, and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained, despite Abe's aspirations, should remain as is.	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
"""Significant segments of the public will continue to resist the efforts to revise Article 9 and there is near unanimous opposition to Japan becoming a nuclear power,"" the expert said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"With Abe only gaining about 55 percent of all votes at the local level in the leadership election, members in the ruling camp have been quoted as saying the figures were ""shocking,"" particularly as they closely reflect public opinion."	distant_evaluation
"LDP party members have also said that the worse-than-expected voting numbers could suggest that victory in the upper house election slated for the summer of 2019 might not be a shoo-in for the ruling camp, with an LDP executive describing the outcome of the leadership vote as ""a revolt from the local regions."""	distant_evaluation
Criticism is now swirling within the ruling party following Thursday's presidential election, reflecting rising dissent from factions within the party based on the lack of support for Abe staying at the helm from the party's own rank-and-file members, sources close to the matter said.	distant_evaluation
People both support and don't support him (Abe) at the same time, said Masao Matsumoto, professor in the Social Survey Research Center at Saitama University, highlighting the political and public divide.	distant_evaluation
And, Abe's sole rival in the leadership race was of the same opinion, in terms of both the ruling party and its leader and a growing lack of cohesion.	distant_evaluation
"""The presidential election demonstrated the LDP is not of one color,"" Ishiba told a press briefing after the vote, underscoring the fact that the road ahead for the party and its president is, indeed, a bumpy one."	distant_expectations_consequences
TOKYO, Sept. 20 (Xinhua) -- Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, winning the ruling party's leadership election Thursday, will likely to become Japan's longest-serving leader, but underwhelming support shown by rank-and-file party members may spell difficulties ahead for both party and president, political analysts said.	main
In the leadership race, Abe's only opponent was former Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba who in the run-up to the election voiced different views to Abe on constitutional reform and economic policies and ended up mounting a far-bigger challenge to the incumbent than expected.	cause_general
Local political observers pointed out that while Abe has secured the top party post for a third-consecutive term, effectively ensuring his position as the nation's next prime minister owing to the ruling coalition's majorities in both chambers of parliament, Ishiba garnering far more support than expected from rank-and-file members has certainly raised some red flags looking ahead.	distant_evaluation
While Abe won 329 out of ballots cast by Diet members, and 224 by rank-and-file members, Ishiba secured 73 votes from legislators but an unexpected 181 votes from ordinary members, who closely reflect public opinion.	cause_specific
This, political analysts said, was to a certain extent down to increasing opposition to the prime minister's long reign amid ongoing cronyism allegations, ineffectual economic policies and the railroading through parliament of contentious legislation, including those related to security, to push forward his constitutional reform agenda.	distant_evaluation
"The underwhelming support in the leadership election, described by political watchers here as a ""backlash"" by the LDP's rank-and-file members, is ""most certainly"" reflected in public opinion, specialists in politics and national ideology have maintained."	distant_evaluation
"""People have begun to feel weary of slogan-only and deceptive politics and Abe's style of the privatized use of public power and hawkish stance toward diplomacy and East Asian international relations,"" Dr. Shin Chiba, professor with Special Appointment, who specializes in political theory, said."	distant_evaluation
BEIJING (Reuters) - Freedom of navigation patrols carried out by foreign navies in the South China Sea could end “in disaster”, a senior Chinese admiral has said, a warning to the United States after last week’s ruling against Beijing’s claims in the area.	main
Speaking behind closed doors at a forum in Beijing on Saturday evening, Sun Jianguo, an admiral and deputy chief of the Joint Staff Department of the powerful Central Military Commission, said the freedom of navigation issue was bogus and one that certain countries repeatedly hyped up.	distant_evaluation
“When has freedom of navigation in the South China Sea ever been affected?	distant_evaluation
It has not, whether in the past or now, and in the future there won’t be a problem as long as nobody plays tricks,” he said, according to a transcript of his comments seen by Reuters on Monday.	distant_evaluation
China is the biggest beneficiary of freedom of navigation in the South China Sea and won’t let anybody damage it, Sun said.	distant_evaluation
IT'S EARNINGS SEASON: Netflix definitely has a growth problem	error
Yahoo reported quarterly results, but investors weren't really looking for numbers	error
“But China consistently opposes so-called military freedom of navigation, which brings with it a military threat and which challenges and disrespects the international law of the sea,” Sun said.	distant_evaluation
Commander of the Chinese navy, Admiral Wu Shengli (R) shakes hands with U.S. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral John Richardson during a welcome ceremony held at the Chinese Navy Headquarters in Beijing, China, July 18, 2016.	error
REUTERS/Ng Han Guan/Pool	error
“This kind of military freedom of navigation is damaging to freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, and it could even play out in a disastrous way,” he added, without elaborating.	main
China has refused to recognize the ruling by an arbitration court in The Hague that invalidated its vast territorial claims in the South China Sea, and did not take part in the proceedings brought by the Philippines.	cause_specific
A U.S. Defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the United States reserved the right to carry out freedom of navigation operations and the Chinese admiral’s comments would not change that.	distant_evaluation
Sun also said the court case at The Hague must be used by China’s armed forces to improve its capabilities “so that when push comes to shove, the military can play a decisive role in the last moment to defend our national sovereignty and interests”.	distant_expectations_consequences
Despite the warnings, China and the United States have been maintaining open lines of communication, with U.S. Chief of Naval Operations John Richardson meeting the head of the Chinese navy, Wu Shengli, in Beijing on Monday.	cause_general
“I think that you can visit China this time at our invitation, that shows both sides attach great concern to maritime security,” Wu told Richardson in brief comments in front of reporters.	distant_evaluation
In the meeting, Wu said China would not stop building reefs and islands in the sea, state-owned Xinhua news agency reported, with that construction also a part of China’s efforts to bolster its claims.	distant_expectations_consequences
Separately, China’s Maritime Safety Administration said on Monday that an area just off the east of the island province of Hainan would be a no-sail zone from July 19-21 while military drills take place.	cause_general
China generally describes its exercises in the South China Sea as routine.	distant_evaluation
Slideshow (4 Images)	error
China’s air force also said on its microblog it had recently carried out “normal battle patrols” over the South China Sea involving bombers, spy planes and flying tankers, including over Scarborough Shoal, which is disputed with the Philippines.	cause_general
Such air patrols would become “a regular practice” in the future, Xinhua reported an air force spokesman as saying.	distant_expectations_consequences
It has reacted angrily to calls by Western countries and Japan for adherence to the decision.	cause_general
MORE TOP STORIES FROM REUTERS: Anti-Trump revolt quashed	error
Viacom's top two executives reserve right to resign	error
China has repeatedly blamed the United States for stirring up trouble in the South China Sea, a strategic waterway through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually.	cause_general
China, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam all have rival claims, of which China’s is the largest.	cause_general
Related Coverage Vietnam TV station drops Chinese drama over South China Sea dispute	cause_general
The United States has conducted freedom of navigation patrols close to Chinese-held islands, to Beijing’s anger, while China has been bolstering its military presence there.	cause_specific
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-03 14:57:51|Editor: xuxin	error
They have yet to make comment on the claims made by the officials.	cause_general
Afghan observers believe that the warring sides in Afghanistan would do their best to gain more grounds and consolidate positions ahead of snowfall and chilly winter in the mountainous country.	distant_expectations_consequences
Video Player Close	error
KABUL, Dec. 3 (Xinhua) -- Afghan government forces' crackdown on insurgents have left 80 Taliban fighters dead in the northern Balkh and eastern Ghazni provinces over the past two days, officials said Monday.	main
A total of 50 militants have been killed in the restive districts of Chamtal, Charbolak and Dawlat Abad in the northern Balkh province and more than 70 others injured, provincial government spokesman Munir Ahmad Farhad said.	main
Several bunkers and weapon caches of the insurgents have also been destroyed, the official said.	cause_general
Without hinting at possible casualties of the security forces, the official said the operations would last until the insurgents are wiped out from the area.	distant_expectations_consequences
Meanwhile, up to 30 militants have been killed and several injured as cleanup operations are underway in Rasana area of Jaghori district in the eastern Ghazni province, said a statement of national army released on Monday.	main
According to the statement, the cleanup operations were launched Sunday and so far, the government forces have also recaptured several villages.	cause_specific
Taliban militants intensified activities over the past couple of months and claimed to have gained grounds in some places.	cause_general
Source: Xinhua| 2018-12-13 05:31:22|Editor: Mu Xuequan	error
"""Saudi Arabia's an important... partner, but I don't think we can simply look the other way when things happen and talk about business as usual."""	distant_evaluation
"Haspel has briefed a group of senators over the case earlier, but several senators said after the briefing that there was ""zero chance"" the Saudi crown prince wasn't involved in the killing."	distant_evaluation
"The Senate was preparing to vote on two resolutions that would condemn Saudi Arabia's role in both Khashoggi's case and the Yemen conflict, despite the earlier briefing of U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary Defense James Mattis last month, when they said there was ""no smoking gun"" to prove the Saudi leader has directly ordered to kill Khashoggi."	cause_general
Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell said earlier the Senate would vote as soon as Wednesday on a resolution calling for the U.S. suspension of all its assistance for the Saudi-led war in Yemen.	distant_expectations_consequences
Bob Corker, Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, also told the media that he was preparing a separate resolution condemning the journalist's killing.	distant_evaluation
McConnell urged senators to vote for Corker's proposal.	distant_evaluation
For their parts, Pompeo and Mattis are expected to brief the full House on Khashoggi's case on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Earlier on Wednesday, Pompeo told the Fox & Friends show in an interview that ""we'll continue to develop the facts, but America has an important ally in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia."""	distant_expectations_consequences
"However, he refused to say whether he believes the Saudi crown prince's denial of personal involvement in the killing, only noting that ""the direct evidence isn't yet available."	distant_evaluation
"It may show up tomorrow; it may have shown up overnight and I haven't seen it."""	distant_evaluation
Video Player Close	error
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that he would stand with the Saudi Arabian crown prince despite the death of Khashoggi.	distant_expectations_consequences
"Noting that he would meet with senators in the hope that they would not propose to stop arms sales to the Saudis, Trump added that he could abide by legislation that requires to end U.S. support for the Saudi-led attack in Yemen, since he personally ""hate to see what's going on"" there."	distant_evaluation
Khashoggi has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities said he died in a ""brawl"" in the consulate."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 Saudis were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
The U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation into his death, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia, such as sanctions and suspension of military support for the Saudi-led attack in Yemen, if those responsible were not held accountable.	distant_expectations_consequences
However, the Trump administration has been reluctant to further punish the Saudi government.	distant_evaluation
"Pompeo said in a recent article that the death of Khashoggi has ""heightened the Capitol Hill caterwauling and media pile-on."""	distant_evaluation
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- CIA Director Gina Haspel on Wednesday briefed some U.S. House leaders on the death of a Saudi journalist, Jamal Khashoggi.	main
However, her briefing has had little effect in changing the Representatives' minds, according to U.S. media reports.	distant_evaluation
Sources familiar with the meeting were quoted as saying that the briefing was conducted on Wednesday morning on a classified condition.	distant_evaluation
The meeting ended as lawmakers told the media before leaving that they had not heard anything that would change their minds about Khashoggi's death.	distant_evaluation
Democratic Representative Eliot Engel, possibly the next chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, was quoted by Reuters as saying that he intended to hold hearings starting early next year to review all aspects of Saudi Arabia's behavior and the U.S.-Saudi relationship.	distant_expectations_consequences
"""I think that all leaders are responsible for things that happen under them."	distant_evaluation
"So I think that we've still got to get to the bottom of it,"" he noted."	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-18 14:21:56|Editor: Yurou	error
"But that's possible -- we're going to see,"" he said."	distant_evaluation
"""But we're going to have a report on Tuesday."	main
"And it'll be very complete."""	distant_evaluation
"""We're going to come up with a report as to what we think the overall impact was and who caused it, and who did it,"" he said."	distant_expectations_consequences
"On Friday, Trump said ""we also have a great ally in Saudi Arabia."	distant_evaluation
They give us a lot of jobs and a lot of business and economic development.	distant_evaluation
"They have been a truly spectacular ally in terms of jobs and economic development."""	distant_evaluation
Also on Friday, the State Department said the United States has not made a final conclusion on the death of Khashoggi.	distant_evaluation
"In a statement, spokesperson Heather Nauert said ""recent reports indicating that the U.S. government has made a final conclusion is inaccurate,"" and that ""there remain numerous unanswered questions with respect to the murder."""	distant_evaluation
"However, Nauert noted that the U.S. side will ""maintain strategic relationship"" with Saudi Arabia."	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post, has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
"The Saudi authorities said that Khashoggi died in a ""brawl"" in its consulate."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigations, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 people were arrested over their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_specific
The U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation in the murder of Khashoggi, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia if those responsible were not held accountable, such as suspending the U.S. military sales to Saudi Arabia and sanctioning the kingdom.	cause_general
On Thursday, the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on 17 individuals over their alleged roles in the killing of Khashoggi.	cause_specific
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Donald Trump on Saturday said the U.S. full report over the death of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi will come over the next two days.	main
On a trip to California, Trump told the media that he had talked with the head of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Gina Haspel, over the killing of Khashoggi.	cause_general
"Referring to the incident as ""a horrible thing"" and ""a very, very bad situation,"" Trump said ""we'll be having a very full report over the next two days, probably Monday or Tuesday."""	main
The CIA has concluded that the Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman had ordered to kill Khashoggi, U.S. media quoted insiders on Friday as saying.	cause_specific
"However, Trump said the CIA has not ""assessed anything yet."""	distant_evaluation
"""It's too early."	distant_evaluation
That was a very premature report.	distant_evaluation
Source: Xinhua| 2018-11-20 10:30:40|Editor: Li Xia	error
"The Saudi authorities said that Khashoggi died in a ""brawl"" in its consulate."	cause_specific
After releasing the results of its initial investigation, the Saudi Public Prosecution announced that 18 people were arrested for their alleged connections with the killing.	cause_general
U.S. Congress has urged a thorough investigation of the case, and threatened to take more actions against Saudi Arabia if those responsible were not held accountable, such as suspending U.S. military sales.	cause_general
Video Player Close	error
WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 (Xinhua) -- A senior U.S. senator on Monday called on the U.S. intelligence community to issue a public assessment report on the death of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.	main
"CIA chief Gina Haspel and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats should ""come out and provide the American people and the Congress with a public assessment of who ordered the killing of Jamal Khashoggi,"" Ron Wyden, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, was quoted by U.S. political media The Hill as saying in a statement."	main
"Wyden, a democrat from the state of Oregon, also repeated his demand in a tweet later in the day, calling on the U.S. intelligence leaders to ""provide a public assessment"" over the death of Khashoggi."	main
U.S. President Donald Trump on Saturday said the U.S. full report over the death of Khashoggi would come in the next two days.	distant_expectations_consequences
"While Turmp described the coming CIA report as ""a very premature"" one, U.S. media, citing insiders, reported on Friday that the CIA has concluded that the Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman had ordered to kill Khashoggi."	distant_evaluation
It was not clear if the report will be made public.	cause_general
Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post, has been missing since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.	cause_specific
File photo shows that local artists perform during the national celebration of mountain gorilla conservation in Kampala, capital of Uganda, Sept. 26, 2009.	error
Mountain gorillas, according to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, were a highly endangered sub-species of primate.	cause_general
They live in forests that have suffered from considerable human impact in the form of timber extraction and other human activity.	cause_general
The primates are also a major source of tourism revenue to countries that host them.	cause_general
According to UWA, tourists who come to see the gorillas contribute a considerable percentage to Uganda's tourism revenue.	cause_general
Uganda earns over 1.4 billion U.S. dollars from the tourism sector annually.	cause_general
(Xinhua/Chen Jing)	error
KAMPALA, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- Uganda, the host of the largest number of mountain gorillas in the world, has called for continued efforts to conserve the primates despite their population going up.	main
Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), a state conservation agency, in a statement to Xinhua on Thursday said more efforts are needed to conserve the giant apes if their number is to continue growing.	main
"""We don't have to be complacent, more is still needed, we have to ensure the population of mountain gorillas continue to increase, this will happen if we put poaching to zero levels and ensuring they don't contract diseases that can kill them,"" the statement said."	main
The statement follows a report by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, which announced that mountain gorillas had been struck off their Red List of Threatened Species.	cause_specific
The body said on Thursday that mountain gorillas among others were no longer a threatened species since their world population had surpassed the 1,000 mark.	cause_specific
The increase in the number is attributed to the conservation efforts by the three host countries, Uganda, Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo.	cause_general
UWA said it will intensify its anti poaching campaigns and do day and night patrols to protect the gorillas.	distant_expectations_consequences
ISLAMABAD, April 18 (Xinhua) -- Two more children died on Wednesday in Pakistan's southern district of Tharparkar due to various reasons, taking the total death in the region for similar cases to 177 so far this year, local media reported quoting government hospital sources.	main
All the deaths have been occurred due to malnutrition and the outbreak of multiple viral infections in Tharparkar, a district in the country's Sindh province, said doctors at the government hospital.	cause_specific
According to the statistics released by the Health Department of Sindh, 55 children died due to the similar viral infections and malnutrition in January, 45 died in February, and 56 in March.	cause_general
At least 21 infant deaths have been reported in April so far.	cause_general
Furthermore, at least 1,500 children die each year due to malnutrition, viral infections and lack of proper medical facilities in the remote region of the province, said the health department.	cause_general
According to media reports, parents of affected children are also concerned over lack of medical facilities in the government hospitals of small cities.	distant_evaluation
In local hospitals, patients are facing severe problems due to lack of doctors and medicines, said the reports.	distant_evaluation
Earlier this month, United Nation's Children Fund has released a report, putting Pakistan on the list of countries with highest mortality rates with 22 infants dying before even turning one month old.	cause_general
The White House is planning an aggressive effort to sell Congress and the American public on President Bush's new strategy for Iraq, beginning with a prime-time address to the nation on Wednesday night, followed Thursday by a presidential trip to Fort Benning, Ga., and appearances on Capitol Hill by the secretaries of state and defense.	main
It's a change in economic, military and political strategy.''	distant_evaluation
White House officials were still planning details of the speech on Monday.	main
The president's aides were contemplating having Mr. Bush deliver it from the White House Map Room, a site replete with the history and imagery of World War II -- imagery that Mr. Bush has invoked as he has sought to compare the campaign against terrorism to the struggle against totalitarianism and the Nazis.	cause_general
But the Oval Office, a more traditional setting, was also being considered.	cause_general
Mr. Bush's aides are planning a highly orchestrated introduction of the plan.	distant_evaluation
Before Wednesday night's speech, which is expected to last about 25 minutes, reporters will receive briefings from senior administration officials, and leading members of Congress will be notified of the president's intentions.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates are scheduled to testify before Congress, and both are expected to make trips to the Middle East soon to drum up support from international allies.	main
''All the world is really watching,'' the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, said Monday, ''and it is important to get this right.''	distant_evaluation
The president himself will go on the road on Thursday, to Fort Benning, a site chosen because its soldiers are heavily involved in operations in Iraq.	main
A senior administration official involved in shaping the strategy said the president would follow Wednesday night's speech with less formal remarks to the troops.	main
With Democrats vowing to oppose any plan to send more troops to Iraq, and some Republicans openly skeptical, Mr. Bush and his aides are already in the thick of an intense sales pitch.	cause_general
''He will thank them, and explain, just like he will have the night before to the American people, some of the specifics of the new way forward,'' the official said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The official said the strategy also included continuing consultation with members of Congress.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It's not just one speech,'' the official said.	distant_evaluation
''This is so complicated you couldn't do it all in one speech.	distant_evaluation
So there will be an ongoing and sustained effort to educate the American people.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Despite Mr. Bush's insistence that he does not govern by polls, the White House is acutely aware that a vast majority of the American public disapproves of the job Mr. Bush is doing in Iraq.	distant_evaluation
But advisers to the president believe that the public is willing to give Mr. Bush another chance -- especially if he puts forth a policy that is heavy on specifics.	distant_expectations_consequences
The president's advisers are also mindful of polls showing that while the public wants the situation to improve in Iraq, it does not necessarily favor immediate withdrawal.	distant_evaluation
''They're going to cast it as a choice between withdrawal and surge,'' said one Republican strategist close to the White House.	distant_evaluation
''The public is not for immediate withdrawal or even a quick withdrawal, but they're not for the status quo.	distant_evaluation
It began on Monday, when the president had back-to-back meetings with Republican senators, urging them to hear him out before passing judgment on his plan.	main
I think they feel as if the public is more likely to support the president's position, which is putting a stake in the ground in Iraq and saying were going to try to win.''	distant_evaluation
The hope is that Mr. Bush can win over the public, and bring Congress along.	distant_expectations_consequences
But it might be a tough sell.	distant_expectations_consequences
At the White House, Mr. Bush told skeptical senators that he came away from a recent meeting in Jordan with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq persuaded that Mr. Maliki was committed to moving toward national reconciliation.	cause_general
At least two Republicans, Senators Gordon Smith of Oregon and Olympia Snowe of Maine, said they were not convinced.	distant_evaluation
''I expressed reservations,'' Ms. Snowe said.	distant_evaluation
''I said, 'Why should we expect any different result than previously,' that I didn't believe the Maliki government had demonstrated the political will or capacity or resoluteness for reconciliation, that the reason Americans are not supporting the war is because they see Iraqis fighting among themselves rather than for themselves, and I didn't see the surge addressing the root causes of the violence.''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Smith, who delivered a speech on the Senate floor before Christmas saying he was at the end of his rope on Iraq, said: ''What this sets up is a classic war powers confrontation between the White House and the Congress.	distant_expectations_consequences
Clearly he has the powers to commit troops; the question is whether the Congress has the convictions to deny funding.''	distant_evaluation
The senator said he, for one, does not have the appetite for that.	distant_evaluation
The sessions stood in stark contrast to the bipartisan meetings Mr. Bush held with lawmakers on Friday.	distant_evaluation
''It would be a dishonorable thing,'' he said, ''to budget away the bullets.''	distant_evaluation
THE REACH OF WAR	error
Senators attending those sessions said that Mr. Bush was careful not to reveal his thinking about whether he was committed to the plan to increase troops.	distant_evaluation
By Monday, though, he made his intentions clear.	distant_evaluation
''It was clear that he has thought long and hard about this change in strategy,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who supports the troop increase.	distant_evaluation
''He emphasized that this is not just about more troops.	distant_evaluation
That's just one small component of it.	distant_evaluation
Democratic leaders said Tuesday that they intended to hold symbolic votes in the House and Senate on President Bush's plan to send more troops to Baghdad, forcing Republicans to take a stand on the proposal and seeking to isolate the president politically over his handling of the war.	main
''If you really want to change the situation on the ground, demonstrate to the president he's on his own,'' said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.	distant_evaluation
''That will spark real change.''	distant_expectations_consequences
The administration continued Tuesday to press its case with members of Congress from both parties.	cause_general
By the time Mr. Bush delivers his speech, 148 lawmakers will have come to the White House in the past week to discuss the war, White House aides said Tuesday night, adding that most met with the president himself.	distant_expectations_consequences
While Mr. Kennedy and a relatively small number of other Democrats were pushing for immediate, concrete steps to challenge Mr. Bush through legislation, Democratic leaders said that for now they favored the less-divisive approach of simply asking senators to cast a vote on a nonbinding resolution for or against the plan.	cause_general
They also sought to frame the clash with the White House on their terms, using language reminiscent of the Vietnam War era to suggest that increasing the United States military presence in Iraq would be a mistake.	distant_evaluation
''We believe that there is a number of Republicans who will join with us to say no to escalation,'' said the Senate mority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada.	distant_evaluation
''I really believe that if we can come up with a bipartisan approach to this escalation, we will do more to change the direction of that war in Iraq than any other thing that we can do.''	distant_expectations_consequences
On the eve of the president's Iraq speech, the White House sent Frederick W. Kagan, a military analyst who helped develop the troop increase plan, to meet with the Senate Republican Policy Committee.	cause_general
But Republican officials conceded that at least 10 of their own senators were likely to oppose the plan to increase troops levels in Iraq.	distant_expectations_consequences
Senate Democrats decided to schedule a vote on the resolution after a closed-door meeting on a day when Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts introduced legislation to require Mr. Bush to gain Congressional approval before sending more troops to Iraq.	cause_specific
And Democrats were proposing their resolution with that in mind, hoping to send a forceful message that as many as 60 senators believed strengthening American forces in Baghdad was the wrong approach.	distant_expectations_consequences
Democratic leaders said they expect all but a few of their senators to back the resolution.	distant_expectations_consequences
In an interview on Tuesday, Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, said he was becoming increasingly skeptical that a troop increase was in the best interest of the United States.	distant_evaluation
''I'm particularly concerned about the greater injection of our troops into the middle of sectarian violence.	distant_evaluation
Whom do you shoot at, the Sunni or the Shia?''	distant_evaluation
Mr. Warner said.	distant_evaluation
''Our American G.I.	distant_evaluation
's should not be subjected to that type of risk.''	distant_evaluation
But the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said Congress could not supplant the authority of the president.	distant_evaluation
''You can't run a war by a committee of 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
The Senate vote is expected as early as next week, after an initial round of committee hearings on the plan Mr. Bush will lay out for the nation Wednesday night in a televised address delivered from the White House library, a setting chosen because it will provide a fresh backdrop for a presidential message.	distant_expectations_consequences
The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, criticized the Democrats' plans.	distant_evaluation
''We understand that the resolution is purely symbolic, but the war -- and the necessity of succeeding in Iraq -- are very real,'' he said Tuesday night.	distant_evaluation
On Thursday, Democrats in the House and Senate will open a series of hearings on the Iraq war.	cause_general
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice are among those who have agreed to testify.	cause_general
Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said that if he was not satisfied that Mr. Bush's plan has sufficient incentives and penalties for the Iraqis, he might support a resolution or amendment to cap the number of American troops in Iraq.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We have got to force the Iraqis to take charge of their own country,'' Mr. Levin said at a breakfast meeting with reporters.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We can't save them from themselves.	distant_evaluation
It is a political solution.	distant_evaluation
It is no longer a military solution.''	distant_evaluation
Lawmakers said Senate Democrats appeared broadly united in opposition to Mr. Bush's approach during their private luncheon on Tuesday.	distant_evaluation
The office of Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House, followed with an announcement that the House would also take up a resolution in opposition to a troop increase.	main
While there were a few senators who favored cutting off money for any troop increase, a handful of others expressed uncertainty about challenging the president on a potential war-powers issue.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We have to be very careful about blocking funding for any troops because we don't want to leave our troops short-changed,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana.	distant_expectations_consequences
Yet a large share of the House Democratic caucus supports a stronger stance against the plan.	distant_evaluation
It remained unclear whether a resolution would satisfy constituents.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Twice in the past 12 months the president has increased troop levels in a last-ditch effort to control the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Iraq,'' said Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, who proposed a resolution opposing a troop increase.	cause_general
''Rather than cooling tensions in Baghdad, the situation has descended further into chaos.''	distant_evaluation
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
House Democrats were scheduled to meet Wednesday morning to consider whether to interrupt their carefully choreographed 100-hour, two-week-long rollout of their domestic agenda this month to address the Iraq war.	distant_expectations_consequences
In both chambers, Democrats made clear that the resolutions -- which would do nothing in practical terms to block Mr. Bush's intention to increase the United States military presence in Iraq -- would be the minimum steps they would pursue.	distant_evaluation
They did not rule out eventually considering more muscular responses, like seeking to cap the number of troops being deployed to Iraq or limiting financing for the war -- steps that could provoke a Constitutional and political showdown over the president's power to wage war.	distant_expectations_consequences
The resolutions would represent the most significant reconsideration of Congressional support for the war since it began, and mark the first big clash between the White House and Congress since the November election, which put the Senate and House under the control of the Democrats.	cause_general
The decision to pursue a confrontation with the White House was a turning point for Democrats, who have struggled with how to take on Mr. Bush's war policy without being perceived as undermining the military or risking criticism as defeatists.	distant_evaluation
Issuing a stinging challenge to President Bush, the Senate on Thursday approved a spending measure that provided more than $97.5 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan but ordered troop withdrawals from Iraq to begin within 120 days and set a goal of removing most armed forces within a year.	main
And that we expect the Congress to be wise about how they spend the people's money.''	distant_evaluation
Two Republicans, Senators Chuck Hagel of Nebraska and Gordon Smith of Oregon, joined 49 Democrats in backing the bill, which totaled $123 billion when money for Gulf Coast hurricane relief, agricultural aid and other domestic projects was added.	cause_general
The bill also includes the Democratic plan to raise the minimum wage by $2.15 over two years.	cause_general
Mr. Reid promised that negotiators would quickly begin to reconcile the new Senate measure with a version passed by the House last week and have a bill ready to be approved and sent to the president soon after the House returns from its spring break on April 16.	distant_expectations_consequences
The administration has said the military needs the money by April 15, and the White House said Thursday that the Pentagon was already having to juggle accounts, shifting money from one program to another to buy more vehicles better able to withstand mines.	distant_evaluation
Dana Perino, the deputy White House spokeswoman, said, ''This, again, underscores the need to get the show on the road, get the bill to the president, he will veto it, and then, we'll take it from there.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Democrats said the president was at fault there as well, saying he took too long to send his financing request to Congress.	distant_evaluation
They also dismissed Republican complaints that they were micromanaging military policy, saying that Congress had Constitutional authority equal to that of the executive branch and that Democrats were forced to intercede because of Mr. Bush's refusal to heed public demands for withdrawing forces.	distant_evaluation
''It begins to return Iraq to the Iraqi people and to return our troops home,'' Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said about the legislation.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republicans said the measure was a colossal mistake that told insurgent forces in Iraq when American troops would begin leaving.	distant_evaluation
Democrats, preparing for a veto fight, immediately sought to paint the president as obstinate in the face of broad public sentiment against the war.	cause_general
''We are sending mixed messages to the world, we are sending mixed messages to our allies, we are sending a clear message to our enemies: when the times get too tough, America's going to walk away regardless of what's going on on the ground,'' said Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, the chairwoman of the Republican Policy Committee.	distant_evaluation
''We're putting a bull's-eye on our troops with boots on the ground.''	distant_evaluation
Though both the House and Senate have now called for military exits from Iraq, they must resolve significant differences between their approaches.	distant_expectations_consequences
The Senate bill, saying American troops ''should not be policing a civil war,'' directs Mr. Bush to begin moving troops out of the country within 120 days of the measure becoming law, ''with the goal of redeploying, by March 31, 2008, all United States combat forces.''	cause_general
The House measure ties its push for withdrawal to the ability of the Iraqi government to meet certain objectives but is more definitive about a pullout, calling for most troops to be removed by Sept. 1, 2008.	distant_expectations_consequences
The bills differ in many details as well.	distant_evaluation
Representative David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said Thursday that he was confident that lawmakers in the two chambers would reach agreement and that he expected Mr. Bush would ultimately make a deal with Congress.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Nicaragua ended with a compromise,'' Mr. Obey said.	distant_evaluation
''El Salvador ended with a compromise.	distant_evaluation
Vietnam did, too.	distant_evaluation
They said he would be the one abandoning American forces should he reject a final bill that lawmakers expected to produce in a few weeks.	distant_expectations_consequences
The president will compromise.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Representative John P. Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat who has led the push for a new Iraq policy, said that simply responding to American public sentiment was reason enough for the administration at least to try to negotiate with Congress.	distant_evaluation
''This will take a lot of conversation with the White House, the Defense Department, unless they don't want to negotiate,'' Mr. Murtha said in an interview, playing down the veto threat.	distant_expectations_consequences
''That's always the way it sounds, but it seldom ends up that way.''	distant_evaluation
For all the public confrontation between the president and the Democratic leaders of Congress, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Bush were chatting amicably on Thursday afternoon in the Capitol Rotunda during a ceremony honoring the Tuskegee Airmen.	cause_general
Among the topics, aides later said, was the Iraq spending bill and how they intend to break their deadlock.	distant_evaluation
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
''If the president vetoes this bill, it is an asterisk in history,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, after a vote of 51 to 47 on the measure.	distant_evaluation
''He sets the record for undermining the troops more than any president we have ever had.''	distant_evaluation
But Mr. Bush was not wavering.	distant_evaluation
He stood on the North Portico of the White House, flanked by Republican House leaders, and delivered his veto threat one more time.	distant_evaluation
''We stand united in saying loud and clear that when we've got a troop in harm's way, we expect that troop to be fully funded,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''And we've got commanders making tough decisions on the ground, we expect there to be no strings on our commanders.	distant_evaluation
Barely a year after parliamentary elections, Ukraine has lurched toward a new political crisis as President Viktor A. Yushchenko's support among lawmakers hemorrhages and he faces new calls to dissolve Parliament, now led by his rival, Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich.	main
Under Mr. Yanukovich's leadership, Mr. Yushchenko's opponents have carved away at the president's already diminished powers.	distant_evaluation
Parliament dismissed his foreign minister, for example, and refused to confirm his first choice as a successor.	cause_general
In the past week, some of Mr. Yushchenko's supporters in Parliament have defected to Mr. Yanukovich's coalition, most prominently Anatoly K. Kinakh, who was a leader of Our Ukraine and the president's former national security adviser.	cause_general
Mr. Yanukovich's Party of Regions now leads a coalition with 260 of the 450 seats and boasts that it may soon have 300, a veto-proof two-thirds majority.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Thursday, Mr. Yushchenko denounced the coalition, saying it no longer represented the results of last year's parliamentary elections, in which no party won a majority.	distant_evaluation
He said the law forbids elected lawmakers to switch parties and called Parliament's actions unconstitutional.	distant_evaluation
His remarks were his clearest suggestion yet that he may call new elections.	distant_expectations_consequences
Supporters of a new vote hope that Mr. Yushchenko and his former allies in the Orange Revolution will be able to put aside their differences and join together to win a majority.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mr. Yushchenko's beleaguered party, Our Ukraine, has organized a public protest against the parliamentary majority for Saturday, along with some of the president's erstwhile supporters who increasingly fear that the pro-Russian Mr. Yanukovich is growing too powerful.	main
By Friday, protesters were already gathering in Kiev, the capital, as were counterprotesters loyal to Mr. Yanukovich.	cause_specific
Those who want Parliament disbanded complain that with the lawmakers and the president at odds, the country has been at a stalemate.	distant_evaluation
One result is that the country has been unable to pass anticorruption and banking laws to speed Ukraine's economic growth.	distant_evaluation
''If there is a president in the country, if the president loves Ukraine and respects Ukrainians, if the president understands all the dangers facing the country, he will either dissolve the Parliament or lose the remaining support of society,'' Yulia V. Tymoshenko, once Mr. Yushchenko's prime minister, said Friday, the Russian news agency Interfax reported from Kiev.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Yushchenko, who leans toward the West, became president after the ''Orange Revolution'' in the fall of 2004 overturned a fraudulent vote that initially gave the presidency to Mr. Yanukovich.	distant_historical
A renewed confrontation between the men has been brewing almost from the day last August that Mr. Yanukovich formed enough of a coalition in Parliament to become prime minister.	distant_evaluation
Now awkwardly sharing power, the two men have agreed on some broad economic and social policies but have differed sharply over foreign policy, especially Mr. Yushchenko's goal of having Ukraine join NATO and the European Union.	cause_general
The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service has estimated that the Army has enough budget flexibility to pay for its military operations through July in the event that a standoff between the White House and Congress over Iraq holds up the money the administration says it needs for the war effort.	main
''This study confirms that the president is once again attempting to mislead the public and create an artificial atmosphere of anxiety,'' Mr. Reid said.	distant_evaluation
''He is using scare tactics to defeat bipartisan legislation that would change course in Iraq.''	distant_evaluation
The document, dated Wednesday, said that based on Pentagon figures and estimates, the Army now has enough money to last through May.	main
If it uses its ability to redirect money, the Army could support both its regular operations ''and war program for almost two additional months or through most of July 2007,'' an analyst for the research service said in the report for the Budget Committee.	main
Senior Army officials said their estimate now is that ways can be found to pay for combat operations through the third week of June.	distant_expectations_consequences
These Army officials stressed that their planning was based on prudent management and not meant to influence the political debate between the White House and Congress.	distant_evaluation
In a letter sent this week to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, and Pete Geren, the acting Army secretary, said that without new money in April, the Army would ''be forced to take increasingly draconian measures which will impact Army readiness and impose hardships on our soldiers and their families.''	distant_expectations_consequences
While the Congressional Research Service document said the Army could keep money flowing to Iraq through midsummer, it acknowledged there would be costs associated with the financial juggling.	main
''In order to ensure that funding is available for the later months of the year, the Army may very well decide that it must slow down its non-war-related operations before money would run out by, for example, limiting facility maintenance and repairs, delaying equipment overhauls, restricting travel and meetings, and perhaps slowing down training,'' the analysis said.	main
At the Pentagon, officials stressed that turning to special budget tools to guarantee money for troops in combat would be more expensive and inefficient.	distant_expectations_consequences
The service's report, made public Friday by Senate Democrats, said the Pentagon may have to shift money between accounts and curtail some nonessential activities, but said Congress has provided the military with new ability to do so, lessening the potential for disruptions until additional money is approved.	main
The first crunch period would come by the end of May, should the impasse not be resolved, when money in the accounts that pay for military operations and maintenance would be exhausted.	distant_expectations_consequences
If that were to happen, Army officials said, units preparing to go to Iraq would not have enough money to undertake all of the required training.	distant_expectations_consequences
Since no units are sent into combat until certified, units now in Iraq would have to extend their tours until money was available to fully train fresh units.	distant_expectations_consequences
If the budget impasse drags past the end of May, then Army and Pentagon officials could redirect money from other accounts -- such as personnel -- to pay for the war effort.	distant_expectations_consequences
In that case, the Army would make its requests to the secretary of defense, who would seek the endorsement of the White House's Office of Management and Budget.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Congressional approval would be required for money to be transferred between accounts, and that process could take weeks.	distant_expectations_consequences
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
Democrats quickly seized on the findings by the service, which is the research arm of Congress, to defend their handling of the legislation to pay for military operation in Iraq and Afghanistan.	cause_general
But the administration stepped up its efforts to accuse them of delaying money and putting American forces at risk.	cause_general
The back-and-forth suggested that both sides are digging in for a pitched public relations battle over who bears responsibility for holding up the money, should Mr. Bush veto it because of Congressionally imposed timelines for withdrawing troops from Iraq.	distant_evaluation
At the White House, Dana Perino, a spokeswoman for the president, took Congress to task for leaving on an Easter break without finishing a final bill to pay for operations through Sept. 30.	cause_general
''The president was surprised to learn that Congress went on vacation today and that the House didn't bother to appoint any conferees in which to help try to reconcile the differences between the Senate and the House bills,'' she said.	distant_evaluation
''And so I don't know how much work is going to be able to get done while they're away.''	distant_evaluation
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the report showed that the administration was overstating the potential impact on the military to try to force Congress to back down on the legislation, which would establish a schedule for bringing troops out of Iraq.	distant_expectations_consequences
A planned visit to Syria next week by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi drew criticism on Friday from the White House, which accused the Democratic Congressional leader of failing to heed the administration's admonitions against travel to Damascus.	main
He said the speaker recalled discussing her Syria trip directly with President Bush on Thursday during his brief visit to the Capitol.	distant_evaluation
Mr. Daly also dismissed suggestions that the State Department had warned the Congressional delegation not to visit Syria.	distant_evaluation
He said the speaker was following the Iraq Study Group's recommendations to ''discuss a wide range of security issues'' with Middle East governments, including Syria.	distant_evaluation
In an interview Friday, Mr. Daly said a separate group of Republicans, including Representatives Frank R. Wolf of Virginia, Joe Pitts of Pennsylvania and Robert B. Aderholt of Alabama, also was visiting Syria.	cause_general
The United States, which believes that Iran and Syria are involved in fueling sectarian violence in Iraq, has declined to conduct direct talks with either government.	cause_general
Earlier this month, an American official attended a conference in Baghdad with representatives of both governments, but there have been no high-level meetings among leaders.	cause_general
''In our view, it is not the right time to have these sorts of high-profile visits to Syria,'' Sean McCormack, a spokesman for the State Department, said.	distant_evaluation
During the Israel portion of the trip, Ms. Pelosi is scheduled to address the Knesset.	cause_general
She is the highest-ranking American woman to speak before the country's Parliament, her spokesman said, and she plans to detail ''America's commitment to Israel and the challenges facing the two nations in the Middle East.''	distant_expectations_consequences
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ	error
Ms. Pelosi is leading a bipartisan delegation on a weeklong tour of the Middle East that is scheduled to include a meeting with Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad.	cause_specific
The Bush administration has resisted significant contact with the Syrian government, accusing it of meddling in Lebanon, supporting terrorism and being unhelpful on Iraq.	cause_general
''We don't think it's a good idea,'' said the White House deputy press secretary, Dana Perino, of the Congressional visit.	distant_evaluation
''We think that someone should take a step back and think about the message that it sends.''	distant_evaluation
As the House started a spring break on Friday, Ms. Pelosi and six members of Congress began a trip to Israel, Syria, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia.	cause_specific
While the United States government has engaged in tentative contact with Syrian officials recently, Ms. Pelosi is the highest-level American official to travel to Syria in years.	cause_general
The White House said it had not been informed that the delegation would be stopping in Syria.	distant_evaluation
A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi, Brendan Daly, denied that assertion on Friday.	distant_evaluation
The White House on Sunday sought to increase pressure on Iran to return the 15 British sailors and marines it is holding, but took care to defer to Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has emphasized that he is seeking a diplomatic solution.	main
The British say they were in Iraqi waters and have provided satellite images that they say prove it.	cause_specific
Mr. Blair and his government have appeared to try to isolate the situation from the broader context of the hostilities between its ally, the United States, and Iran.	cause_general
And until Saturday, Mr. Bush had been keeping quiet, accordingly.	cause_general
Iranian leaders have denied that the British military personnel were taken in retaliation for the detention of five Iranian officials in Iraq by the United States, who were suspected of providing weapons and money to extremist groups.	distant_evaluation
The White House's louder comments in the dispute this weekend came as the British made more conciliatory comments, with the British foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett, saying that ''everyone regrets that this position has arisen'' and that ''what we want is a way out of it.''	distant_evaluation
Despite her comments, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran criticized Britain this weekend for failing to apologize.	distant_evaluation
On Sunday, 2,000 protesters clashed with the police as they marched on the British Embassy in Tehran, Iran's capital, throwing rocks and shooting firecrackers at it.	cause_general
The government showed new video images of the prisoners pointing to a map, supposedly proving they had trespassed, with one sailor saying he understood the anger at the ''intrusion into your waters.''	cause_specific
British authorities have denounced the videos as coerced propaganda.	distant_evaluation
''This is the type of unacceptable behavior that is just the latest in a long history from the Iranian government of bad actions it's taken, further isolating themselves from the international community,'' said Dan Bartlett, the White House counselor, during an appearance on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation.''	main
''The president remains a firm supporter of the position that the prime minister of the United Kingdom has taken in this, and we'll support them in any way they need us.''	main
Mr. Bartlett was speaking one day after President Bush spoke publicly on the situation for the first time.	cause_general
Mr. Bush told reporters at Camp David on Saturday: ''The British hostages' issue is a serious issue because the Iranians took these people out of Iraqi water.	distant_evaluation
And it's inexcusable behavior.''	distant_evaluation
The president said, ''The Iranians must give back the hostages'' with no quid pro quos, adding, ''I strongly support the Blair government's attempts to resolve this peacefully.''	distant_evaluation
The Iranians took eight British sailors and seven marines into custody after intercepting them March 23 as they were seeking smugglers in a mission under United Nations auspices.	cause_specific
The Iranians charge that the Britons were illegally in Iranian waters, and Iran is seeking an apology.	cause_specific
The Justice Department, in an indictment disclosed Monday, charged that agencies of the Indian government participated in a conspiracy to sidestep United States export regulations and obtain secret weapons technology from American companies over several years.	main
The defendants were charged with violating the United States Export Administration Act, which prohibits the export of dual-use technologies, those with both military and nonmilitary uses, without approval from the Commerce Department attesting that the technology will be used only for nonmilitary purposes.	cause_specific
The indictment charges that Cirrus officials sometimes forged certificates to show the vendors in the United States that the sales had Commerce Department approval.	cause_specific
Officials at the Indian Embassy in Washington declined to comment except to say that government officials in New Delhi have pledged to look into the allegations.	cause_general
Some critics of the nuclear deal reacted angrily to the indictment, and criticized the administration for pressing Congress to approve the agreement at the same time that the Justice Department was investigating an alleged conspiracy involving Indian government officials.	distant_evaluation
''This is not only an indictment of individuals for breaking export control law, it is also a blistering indictment of the Bush administration's judgment,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who was one of the leading Congressional opponents of the nuclear deal.	distant_evaluation
Tom Casey, a State Department spokesman, said, ''This is a law enforcement matter that began before our efforts to conclude a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement.''	distant_evaluation
He added, ''The arrests of these individuals are not connected to our efforts to conclude an agreement.''	distant_evaluation
The indictment charges that a private electronics firm, Cirrus Inc., operating in Singapore, South Carolina and Bangalore, India, was working as an agent of the Indian government to obtain sensitive missile and weapons technology for its military programs.	main
It lists four company officials, including the founder, Parthasarathy Sudarshan, and a number of unidentified co-conspirators who were not charged, including one mentioned only as an Indian government official who worked in Washington.	main
The indictment indicates that the defendants were buying equipment for three Indian government agencies.	cause_specific
The charges, coming just months after Congress approved President Bush's plan to ship American nuclear reactors and fuel to India, could prove to be a diplomatic embarrassment for the administration, which has made cementing closer ties with India a top foreign policy priority.	distant_evaluation
The indictment suggests that India broke a pledge to the Bush administration more than two years ago not to flout American export laws and secretly seek weapons technology from the United States.	distant_evaluation
Although Congress has signed off on the nuclear deal, India must still reach a separate agreement on nuclear inspections with several international organizations before the deal is complete.	cause_general
In a letter to the State Department in September 2004, Shyam Saran, then the Indian foreign secretary, wrote, ''The Government of India shall not obtain or use U.S. origin licensable items in contravention of U.S. export control laws and regulations.''	distant_historical
The weapons sales detailed in the indictment occurred between 2003 and 2006 and were shipped to government agencies that were part of the Indian Ministry of Defense and Department of Space.	distant_historical
The parallels are striking: bold new Congressional majorities swept into power by public dissatisfaction with White House policies.	distant_evaluation
Democrats, who sided with the president in 1995, are the ones challenging the White House now, bolstered by public sentiment against the war.	main
Even as those in the middle of the current clash strategize about the next move, some figures central to the past fight say the differences are more pronounced than the similarities.	distant_evaluation
''There were no Americans risking their lives at the Washington monument in 1995,'' said Newt Gingrich, the Republican speaker at the time whom critics accused of badly overplaying his hand.	distant_evaluation
''There were no Americans being shot at the Interior Department in 1995,'' he said.	distant_evaluation
''We were engaged in a domestic political debate over being serious over a balanced budget.	distant_evaluation
The Democrats risk sending signals to our enemies that kidnapping British sailors and killing young Americans is acceptable.''	distant_evaluation
Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader in 1995, sees differences as well, but believes they play to Democratic strengths, with Mr. Bush defending an unpopular war and Democrats treading more carefully than did Mr. Gingrich and his coterie.	distant_evaluation
''Newt Gingrich boasted of shutting the government down,'' recalled Mr. Daschle.	distant_evaluation
''He was proud of the fact he was doing that just to show his will.	distant_evaluation
Republicans felt they had a mandate and could do what they wanted.	distant_evaluation
The administration and Congress digging in for a test of wills over federal spending.	cause_general
I don't think you could find a Democrat who thinks they have a mandate, but we do have a chance.''	distant_evaluation
Almost from the beginning of the budget fight in 1995, Mr. Clinton's poll numbers edged up and those of Mr. Gingrich, the Republican speaker of the House, dipped as the public perceived the president as the one trying to resolve the problem and Republicans as inflexible.	distant_historical
One difference with 1995 was that in that episode, there was tangible fallout for Americans as parks and museums closed, benefit checks were delayed and an array of federal assistance was suspended.	distant_evaluation
Today, the administration is making the case that the military will be denied resources, and some tours in Iraq might have to be extended if no bill is approved.	cause_general
But the Pentagon appears to have the flexibility to pay for operations at least through May and possibly longer with substantial juggling.	cause_general
Nevertheless, any event detrimental to the troops that could be tied to the impasse could cause a backlash for Democrats.	distant_expectations_consequences
Republicans say they continue to believe that much of the public still regards the president as the nation's pre-eminent leader and that Congress should not meddle in White House business too deeply.	distant_evaluation
''With us it was a bridge too far,'' said Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia, recalling the duel with Mr. Clinton.	distant_evaluation
''Tactically, we made a mistake and found the American people still liked the office of the presidency having some dominance.	distant_evaluation
This is the Democrats' government shutdown.''	distant_evaluation
A watershed presidential election looming.	distant_evaluation
But Democrats say that Mr. Bush is operating in an atmosphere of deep skepticism and that he must fight his own low poll numbers as well as public frustration with the war -- even though a recent survey showed a slight gain in optimism about Iraq.	distant_evaluation
''We have had a chance to study 1995, and Democrats are bound and determined to make sure it won't happen to them,'' said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader.	distant_evaluation
''Here we have a president seriously at odds with the American people.''	distant_evaluation
Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the current chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and a senior aide in the Clinton administration, said Mr. Bush was retracing the missteps of Mr. Gingrich, courting conflict, while Mr. Clinton displayed a willingness to compromise.	distant_evaluation
''President Clinton started off with, 'Come on, let's talk, let's negotiate,' '' said Mr. Emanuel.	distant_evaluation
''President Bush has started off with confrontation.''	distant_evaluation
Indeed, the White House has drawn a hard line, saying it will not legitimize a Democratic withdrawal plan of any sort by accepting it as part of legislation.	distant_evaluation
Two Democrats said that Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, urged Mr. Bush to work with Democrats on the war while the two mingled in her office before a Capitol Rotunda ceremony last week; the Democrats said that Mr. Bush's reply was essentially, ''I am where I am.''	distant_evaluation
Both sides are trying to exploit openings.	cause_general
Republicans, aware of Mr. Bush's low standing, point to the added domestic spending in the House and Senate bills, trying to build resentment to pork-barrel projects.	cause_general
Memories of the rancorous 1995 budget fight between President Clinton and leaders of the Republican revolution are casting a distinct shadow over the current impasse between President Bush and Congressional Democrats on Iraq.	distant_evaluation
The White House is employing its presidential megaphone, particularly with Congress out of town for Easter.	cause_general
Mr. Bush took to the Rose Garden on Tuesday to warn of ''significant consequences for our men and women in the armed forces.''	cause_general
Democrats immediately fired back, accusing the president of being out of touch with the public and calling on him to negotiate.	cause_general
''I saw a lot of what happened when my husband had a Republican Congress,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, as she toured Iowa as part of her presidential campaign.	distant_evaluation
''We would stake out one position, they would stake out one position.	distant_evaluation
And then people would begin to try to figure out how to narrow the difference.	distant_evaluation
That's what should be happening here.''	distant_evaluation
It is difficult to predict who will prevail.	distant_evaluation
After all, no one foresaw in the fall of 1995 that a simple legislative dispute would end up stalling the momentum of a determined new majority and enhancing the standing of an embattled president.	distant_evaluation
CONGRESSIONAL MEMO	error
Each side believes it can apply lessons learned from that earlier battle to its strategy in the current showdown.	distant_evaluation
The 1995 budget fight grew out of the push by Republicans -- riding their historic House takeover the year before -- for cuts in federal spending, with Medicare as their poster child for a bloated federal program.	distant_historical
When Mr. Clinton refused to go along with trimming the program, budget talks collapsed, and the resulting 21-day shutdown put nearly 300,000 federal workers on furlough and disrupted public services.	distant_historical
Republicans were outmaneuvered in that battle, and found that the public blamed them for a shutdown of federal agencies.	distant_historical
Today, they stand behind the executive branch, with 150 Republican House members promising Mr. Bush they would sustain his veto of a war spending measure that sets a timeline for leaving Iraq.	main
The first former Guantanamo detainee to be tried in a civilian court was acquitted Wednesday of all but one of more than 280 charges of conspiracy and murder in the 1998 terrorist bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.	main
Ghailani, who remains in custody, faces a sentence of 20 years to life in prison.	cause_general
The unexpected verdict by the anonymous six-man, six-woman jury came in the fifth day of deliberations.	cause_general
Ghailani's lawyers -- Peter E. Quijano, Steve Zissou and Michael K. Bachrach -- had argued that their client was innocent and had been duped into assisting in the terrorist conspiracy.	distant_evaluation
"""This verdict is a reaffirmation that this nation's judicial system is the greatest ever devised,"" Quijano said."	distant_evaluation
"""It is truly a system of laws and not men, where, in the shadow of the World Trade Center, this jury acquitted Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani of 284 out of 285 counts."""	distant_evaluation
The case has been seen as a test of President Barack Obama's goal of trying detainees in federal court whenever feasible, and the result may again fuel debate over whether civilian courts are appropriate for trying terrorists.	distant_expectations_consequences
The defendant, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, 36, was convicted of one count of conspiracy to destroy government buildings and property.	main
He was acquitted of four counts of conspiracy, including conspiring to kill Americans and to use weapons of mass destruction.	main
Because of the unusual circumstances of Ghailani's case -- after he was captured in Pakistan in 2004, he was held for nearly five years in a so-called black site run by the CIA and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba -- the prosecution faced significant legal hurdles even getting his case to trial.	distant_evaluation
On the eve of trial last month, the government lost a key ruling that may have seriously damaged its chances of winning convictions.	distant_evaluation
In the ruling, the judge, Lewis A. Kaplan of U.S. District Court in Manhattan, barred it from using an important witness against Ghailani because the government had learned about the man through Ghailani's interrogation while he was in CIA custody, where his lawyers say he was tortured.	cause_specific
"The witness, Hussein Abebe, would have testified that he had sold Ghailani the large quantities of TNT used to blow up the embassy in Dar es Salaam, prosecutors told the judge, calling him ""a giant witness for the government."""	distant_evaluation
"On Wednesday, when the judge's clerk asked how the jury found on counts 11 to 223, which were all counts of murder, the jury foreman replied, ""Not guilty."""	main
MOSCOW – Aleksei A. Navalny, the opposition leader and one of the most prominent politicians to go on trial in modern Russia, used his first full day in court Wednesday to say that the trial would prove his innocence, even if the judge convicted him.	main
Others who have challenged Putin have faced prosecution, most notably the Yukos oil tycoon, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, who remains in prison, but the case against Navalny is the first in post-Soviet Russia against a high-profile political figure.	cause_general
Navalny is charged with embezzling $500,000 from a state-controlled timber company in Kirov while working as an adviser to the regional governor in 2009.	cause_specific
Prosecutors initially dismissed the case, but federal officials revived it after Navalny became the most prominent leader of the street protests in Moscow last year.	cause_specific
He used his first day in court for a flurry of motions seemingly intended to highlight the apparent absurdity of a 4-year-old case in a provincial city far from Moscow surfacing in the wake of last winter’s protests, but ostensibly unrelated to the street protests.	cause_general
A spokesman for the Investigative Committee, a branch of the prosecutor’s office, said in an interview in Izvestia newspaper that investigators had focused on Navalny because he was accusing state officials of corruption while claiming to be “clean” himself.	distant_evaluation
The trial will resume Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
The trial, streamed on the Internet, has promised to be an important touchstone in President Vladimir V. Putin’s long career, as prosecutors have not previously indicted a high-profile politician, but it has gotten off to a languid start.	distant_evaluation
It began last week in the provincial city of Kirov, east of Moscow.	cause_general
Within an hour of opening, however, Judge Sergei A. Blinov granted a request by the defense lawyers for an adjournment so they could better prepare for trial.	cause_general
They requested a month, he gave them a week and they appealed.	cause_general
A higher court rejected that appeal Tuesday, clearing the way for opening statements to begin Wednesday.	cause_general
Navalny, who is a lawyer, spoke at times in his own defense.	cause_general
“I am certain my innocence will be clear to everybody who is present in this chamber and everybody watching,” Navalny told the court, according to a transcript posted by the Rapsi legal news agency.	main
“To all those involved in the illegal investigation, sooner or later you will face a severe but just punishment.”	distant_evaluation
Kathryn Wasserman Davis, who contributed tens of millions of dollars to cleaning the Hudson River and promoting peace through an organization she founded when she was 100, died Tuesday at her home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 106.	main
She received a bachelor’s degree from Wellesley, in Massachusetts, a master’s in international relations from Columbia University and a doctorate from the University of Geneva in Switzerland.	cause_general
A lifelong globetrotter and a Russophile since her first visit to the Caucasus Mountains in 1929, she met the insurance investment magnate Shelby Cullom Davis on a train to Geneva in 1930.	distant_historical
They were married on Jan. 4, 1932.	distant_historical
Shelby Davis died in 1994.	distant_historical
Davis is survived by a daughter, Diana Davis Spencer; a son, Shelby; eight grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.	cause_general
She also owned a home in Northeast Harbor, Maine, and supported environmental charities there including the Maine Coast Heritage Trust.	cause_general
Her grandson Christopher said that virtually all of the Davis fortune would be left to charity.	distant_expectations_consequences
Her death was confirmed by her grandson Christopher Davis.	main
Davis donated millions to Scenic Hudson, a group that works to clean the river and its environs, after taking up kayaking in her 90s near her home in Tarrytown, N.Y.	cause_general
In 2007, when she turned 100, she founded Davis Projects for Peace, which awards $10,000 grants to humanitarian endeavors around the world initiated by college students.	distant_historical
About 600 proposals from students of the 90 schools associated with the Davis United World College Scholars Program have been financed so far.	cause_general
This year’s projects include an attempt to provide solar-powered lamps to an impoverished county in China.	cause_general
For her efforts Davis was awarded the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public Service.	cause_general
Davis was also a benefactor of higher education, giving to Ivy League universities such as Harvard and Columbia and particularly to Wellesley College, her undergraduate alma mater, where she created the Davis Museum and Cultural Center.	cause_general
Kathryn Stix Wasserman was born in Philadelphia on Feb. 25, 1907.	distant_historical
JERUSALEM – Four young brothers who had fled the civil war in Syria were killed in a fire that engulfed four tents in the Zaatari refugee camp near Jordan’s northern border, the aid worker who runs the camp said Saturday.	main
“The main thing for me was to keep peace there.”	distant_evaluation
Kilian Kleinschmidt of the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said that there were conflicting reports as to whether the Friday night fire was started by a candle or an electrical short-circuit, but that he believed it was accidental, in contrast to previous fires that officials suspect were deliberately set to protest conditions in the camp.	cause_specific
“This looks like a genuine fire,” said Kleinschmidt, director of the Zaatari camp.	distant_evaluation
“This tragic incident highlights even more so how vulnerable the kids are in displacement and refuge.”	distant_evaluation
Zaatari, the largest camp of Syrian refugees in the region, has more than 100,000 residents, nearly 60 percent of them children; more than half live in tents.	cause_general
Kleinschmidt said the four brothers from the Mubarak family – Salem, 6; Mahmoud, 5; Yasen, 4; and Mohammad, 3 – had suffered burns over 80 percent of their bodies and died in a local hospital, two Friday night and two Saturday.	main
Kleinschmidt said residents from the area of the camp where the fire broke out had stormed the registration compound Saturday morning to demand that their tents be replaced by the prefabricated units known as caravans.	main_consequence
After a series of meetings, Kleinschmidt said, his staff agreed to provide caravans immediately to about half the refugees in the area if they moved to a less crowded spot.	main_consequence
“We came to that deal,” he said.	distant_evaluation
PARIS – Five people were convicted Monday in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, in connection with an elaborate organ-trafficking network that lured poor people to the country to sell their kidneys and other organs to wealthy transplant recipients from Israel, the United States, Canada and Germany.	main
“The sole and driving motive for this exploitation of the poor and the indigent was the opportunity for obscene profit and human greed,” Ratel, the prosecutor, said Monday.	distant_evaluation
“In every sense this was a cruel harvest of the poor.”	distant_evaluation
The case has shaken Kosovo, a mostly Muslim country of 2 million that broke away from Serbia in 2008 in the aftermath of the Balkan wars of the 1990s and has been struggling to shed a culture of lawlessness and corruption.	main_consequence
This month, Kosovo and Serbia reached an agreement that the Kosovo government hopes will accelerate its integration into the international community, including membership in the United Nations.	cause_general
According to the indictment in the case, traffickers in the network promised payments of up to $26,000 to poor people in Turkey, Moldova and Russia to persuade them to travel to Kosovo and donate an organ.	cause_specific
They were asked to sign false documents saying they were donating to a relative for humanitarian reasons.	cause_specific
Two dozen donors were taken in by the scheme; many were never given any compensation and were released without adequate medical care.	cause_specific
The wealthy, ailing patients who were to receive the organs flew to Pristina for transplant operations at a clinic called Medicus.	cause_specific
It was founded by a well-meaning European philanthropist who helped local doctors during the war in Kosovo in 1999, but prosecutors said it was later transformed into an illegal organ transplant hub by Dervishi, a surgeon and professor at Pristina University Hospital.	cause_specific
Ratel said the Dervishis were aided by Dr. Yusuf Sonmez, whom he called a notorious international organ trafficker.	distant_evaluation
Organs sold for as much as $130,000 each.	cause_general
Sonmez is a fugitive and may be in South Africa, Ratel said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The big breakthrough in the case happened in November 2008, Ratel said, when a young Turkish man was found at the Pristina airport, weak and shaking, with a large surgical scar on his left abdomen.	cause_specific
The man told the police that his kidney had been stolen.	cause_specific
When the police raided the clinic, they found a frail elderly Israeli man who had paid $90,000 for the kidney.	cause_specific
Petrit Selimi, the deputy foreign minister of Kosovo, said the verdict showed that the rule of law was working in the country.	distant_evaluation
“Illegal organ transplants are a scourge of poorer nations from Kamchatka to Kosovo, and we will continue to chase criminals engaged in it,” Selimi said.	distant_expectations_consequences
The defendants, all Kosovars, were tried before a panel of two European Union judges and one Kosovar judge.	cause_general
A special prosecutor for the union, Jonathan Ratel, called the case a landmark because doctors had been convicted.	distant_evaluation
Dr. Lutfi Dervishi, a urologist and the director of the clinic at the center of the trafficking ring, was sentenced to eight years in prison.	main
His son Arban Dervishi was sentenced to seven years and three months, and Dr. Sokol Hajdini, the clinic’s chief anesthesiologist, to three years.	main
Two other defendants received one-year suspended sentences.	main
In addition to the five who were convicted, two defendants were acquitted of charges of fraud and abuse of authority.	cause_general
All had denied any wrongdoing.	cause_general
Kodak said Monday that it would spin off its document and personal imaging units to its British pension plan for $650 million in cash and noncash considerations, a move that paves the way for Kodak’s exit from bankruptcy protection.	main
But as part of that sale, Kodak retained a license to use the digital imaging portfolio patents in its future businesses, and for those businesses that it is selling.	distant_historical
Kodak is being advised by Lazard and the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell.	cause_general
Kodak had been seeking to sell off the two imaging operations.	cause_specific
Two weeks ago, Eastman Kodak announced a plan to sell its document imaging business to Brother of Japan for $210 million, with the provision that it could revisit the deal if it could sell both units together.	cause_general
Now the bankrupt film pioneer has struck an even more advantageous deal after a protracted sales process.	distant_evaluation
More important, the pension plan will settle its bankruptcy claim of $2.8 billion, paving the way for the company to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the United States.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Tuesday, Kodak plans to file a draft plan to emerge from bankruptcy.	distant_expectations_consequences
“In one comprehensive transaction, Kodak will realize its previously announced intention to divest its personalized imaging and document imaging businesses and settle its largest legacy liability,” Antonio M. Perez, Kodak’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
The company had filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2012 and has been selling off various assets since then.	distant_historical
In December, Kodak reached an agreement to sell 1,100 digital imaging patents to a consortium of technology companies for $525 million, far less than expected.	distant_historical
MULTAN, Pakistan – An Indian man on death row in Pakistan for espionage has died after being attacked by fellow inmates, Pakistan’s state television said early Thursday.	main
Singh was convicted of spying and for his involvement in a series of bomb blasts that killed 14 people in the Punjabi cities of Faisalabad and Lahore in 1990.	distant_historical
In 2006, Singh’s sister appealed to Pervez Musharraf, who was then Pakistan’s president, to grant him clemency and repatriate him to India.	distant_historical
That petition was dismissed by Musharraf and the Pakistani courts.	distant_historical
Singh then wrote to President Asif Ali Zardari in July 2009, requesting a pardon on humanitarian grounds.	distant_historical
Sarabjit Singh, 51, died in a hospital in the eastern city of Lahore, where he had been in a coma for at least five days.	main
Singh was convicted of espionage in relation to bombings in two Pakistani cities in 1990.	distant_historical
His fate has been a source of tension between Pakistan and India since he was attacked Friday.	distant_evaluation
In a statement, the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, said he was “deeply saddened” by Sarabjit Singh’s death, describing him as a “brave son of India.”	distant_evaluation
Singh, the prime minister, criticized the Pakistani government’s refusal to repatriate the injured prisoner to India for emergency treatment.	distant_evaluation
According to the Pakistani police, Sarabjit Singh was assaulted by two prisoners as he left his cell at Kot Lakhpat jail, outside Lahore, to exercise last Friday.	cause_specific
He suffered severe head injuries and was later taken to the city’s Jinnah hospital in critical condition.	cause_specific
Singh’s Pakistani lawyer said that his client had previously spoken of threats from inmates following the hanging of Afzal Guru, an accused Kashmiri militant, by the Indian authorities in February.	distant_anecdotal
BEIJING – Human rights advocates have accused authorities in eastern China of denying urgent medical care to the nephew of dissident Chen Guangcheng, a move they say is aimed at punishing the uncle for his continued anti-government activism abroad after his daring escape to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.	main
Chen, now studying at New York University Law School, has continued to press for an investigation into his mistreatment and to speak out publicly about what he sees as the lack of rule of law in China.	cause_general
The government’s response, he has said, has been an escalating campaign of intimidation against those he left behind in Dongshigu village.	distant_evaluation
Family members say that the nephew, Chen Kegui, 34, has acute appendicitis but that prison officials are refusing to send him to a hospital.	cause_specific
“We’re very worried for his survival,” his father, Chen Guanfu, said Thursday, speaking from the prison in China’s Shandong province where his son is being held.	distant_evaluation
Chen Kegui was sentenced in November to 39 months in jail for “intentional injury” after he was convicted of attacking a government official who had broken into his family’s home in the frantic search for his uncle, who, although blind, had escaped house arrest from a nearby farmhouse.	distant_historical
Unknown to local officials, Chen Guangcheng had by then fled to Beijing and, later, to the U.S. Embassy, prompting a diplomatic imbroglio that complicated an official visit by then-Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.	distant_historical
Chen Guangcheng, a self-taught lawyer who was once hailed by the state media for his advocacy work, earned the government’s enmity after he took on the case of thousands of local women who had been subjected to forced abortions and sterilizations.	cause_general
In 2006, he was sentenced to 51 months in jail on what supporters say were trumped-up charges; upon his release, he and his family were confined to their home.	distant_historical
His improbable escape – by scaling a wall one night and crawling through fields to freedom – deeply embarrassed the Chinese government.	distant_evaluation
After several days of tense negotiations last May, Chinese officials allowed Chen Guangcheng and his family to leave the embassy for New York.	distant_historical
SEOUL, South Korea – North Korea said Thursday that its Supreme Court had sentenced a U.S. citizen to 15 years of hard labor for committing hostile acts against its government.	main
They said security officials in the North might have been offended by pictures of orphans that Bae had taken and stored in his computer.	distant_evaluation
North Korea has often used the plight of detained Americans as a bargaining chip in its dealings with Washington.	distant_evaluation
Some were freed only after former U.S. presidents traveled to the North to seek their release.	distant_historical
In 2009, North Korea arrested two U.S. journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, who it said had entered illegally and committed “hostile acts.” They were sentenced to 12 years of hard labor, but were released five months later, after former President Bill Clinton visited Pyongyang, the North’s capital, and met with Kim Jong Il, the leader at the time.	distant_historical
The North has been locked in a standoff with the United States and South Korea since detonating a nuclear bomb in February.	cause_general
Some analysts say the nation’s leader, Kim Jong Un, might be chafing at his inability to shift those two countries, which have refused to offer the North aid in order to relieve tensions, from their tough stance.	distant_evaluation
In January, Bill Richardson, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, tried to see Bae during a private trip to the North, but he said the government had rebuffed him.	distant_historical
Kenneth Bae, 44, a Korean-American from Washington state who ran a tour business out of China, was arrested in the special economic zone of Rason in northeastern North Korea in November after leading a group of businessmen there from Yanji, China.	cause_specific
On Saturday, the North said it was indicting him on charges that he tried to overthrow Pyongyang’s government.	cause_general
On Thursday, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said the Supreme Court had sentenced Bae during a hearing Tuesday.	main
The court convicted him of “hostile acts,” a charge less grave than the original charge that prosecutors pressed.	cause_general
The crime of trying to overthrow the government could have resulted in the death penalty.	distant_expectations_consequences
Under North Korean law, Bae should be transferred to a labor camp within 10 days of the ruling.	distant_expectations_consequences
The ruling came amid high tensions between Pyongyang and Washington and could complicate Washington’s diplomatic balancing act as it tries to hold a tough line with North Korea over its nuclear program.	distant_expectations_consequences
South Korean human rights advocates have said Bae not only ran tours to North Korea but also was interested in helping orphans there.	distant_evaluation
ALBANY – In another setback for proponents of the natural gas drilling technique known as hydrofracking, a state appellate court affirmed the right of local governments to ban the process within their borders.	main
The drilling industry insists the process is safe, but opposition to fracking has virtually eclipsed every other environmental issue in New York in recent years.	distant_evaluation
The plaintiffs in the Dryden case argued the ban violates the state’s regulatory supremacy under the Oil, Gas and Solution Mining Law.	distant_evaluation
Thursday’s decision affirmed a February 2012 decision in state Supreme Court that rejected the industry’s argument.	main_consequence
''We find nothing in the language, statutory scheme or legislative history of the (Mining Law) statute indicating an intention to usurp the authority traditionally delegated to municipalities to establish permissible and prohibited uses of land within their jurisdictions,'' wrote Appellate Division Presiding Justice Karen Peters.	distant_evaluation
The mid-level appeals court decision held ''that the OGSML does not pre-empt ... a municipality’s power to enact a local zoning ordinance banning all activities related to the exploration for, and the production or storage of, natural gas and petroleum within its borders.''	distant_evaluation
Justices Leslie Stein, Edward Spain and Elizabeth Garry concurred.	distant_evaluation
The same decision informed the court’s rejection of an appeal from a landowner who opposed a ban in Middlefield, Otsego County.	cause_general
According to the website FrackTracker, there are 55 municipal bans against fracking in New York state – including those in Albany and Guilderland – and 105 moratoriums.	cause_general
Activists believe many of the moratoriums could harden into bans now that communities won’t have to face the costly prospect of defending themselves in court.	distant_expectations_consequences
''We’re obviously disappointed with the decision,'' said Albany attorney Thomas West, who represented Norse in the Dryden appeal.	distant_evaluation
In a 4-0 decision Thursday, the Appellate Division of state Supreme Court’s Third Department rejected an appeal from Norse Energy Corporation, which had stepped into the plaintiff’s role in a lawsuit initially brought by Anschutz Exploration Corp. against the Town of Dryden’s fracking ban.	main
He noted that since the decision isn’t a reversal of a lower court decision and absent at least two dissenting justices, it’s highly unlikely the state’s highest court, the Court of Appeals, will agree to hear the case.	distant_expectations_consequences
Nevertheless, he said the plaintiffs plan to ask the Albany-based court to take the case.	distant_expectations_consequences
''It’s another nail in the coffin for drilling in New York,'' West said, adding that energy companies aren’t going to plunge resources into securing drilling rights on land that can be swept out from under them by ''a 3-2 town board vote.''	distant_evaluation
Anti-fracking groups were elated.	distant_evaluation
''This decision shows that our democracy in New York state still works and in this David and Goliath battle we can win,'' said a statement from Kelly Branigan of Middlefield Neighbors and New Yorkers Against Fracking.	distant_evaluation
But James Pardo, a New York City attorney who has represented the oil and gas industry, said the decision could potentially have the effect of smoothing fracking’s path in New York.	distant_anecdotal
Pardo noted Cuomo, who will make the ultimate decision on whether the state will allow the process, has reportedly explored a pilot program that would let communities decide if they want to welcome fracking.	distant_anecdotal
The appellate court’s decision, which in effect imposes that home-rule mechanism statewide, provides ''the ultimate out for him,'' Pardo said.	distant_anecdotal
''Now he can say ... 'If you don’t want it going on in your community, amend your zoning ordinance.'''	distant_anecdotal
For drilling companies, he said the ruling ''will take the fight local.	distant_anecdotal
When the ban was passed in August 2011, Anschutz had approximately 22,000 acres of land in the Tompkins County community under lease for potential drilling.	distant_historical
...	distant_anecdotal
It will force operators to get down in the weeds in these communities’' and make their case for development.	distant_anecdotal
Environmentalists who believe fracking is inherently unsafe say only a statewide ban will suffice.	distant_evaluation
''The kind of environmental degradation that occurs with fracking knows no boundaries on a map,'' said Seth Gladstone of Food & Water Watch.	distant_evaluation
cseiler(at)timesunion.com - 518-454-5619 - Twitter: (at)CaseySeiler	error
Norse, a Norwegian company that subsequently acquired many of the leases, entered bankruptcy court in December.	distant_historical
New York has not made a final decision on fracking despite a regulatory process that has lasted more than four years.	cause_general
Gov.	cause_general
Andrew Cuomo is awaiting the final construction of the Department of Environmental Conservation’s regulatory framework for the process.	cause_general
A key chapter of the massive document is awaiting review by the Department of Health.	cause_general
The technique, used in Pennsylvania, Texas and many other states, involves the injection of high volumes of water and a small amount of chemicals to break up gas-bearing shale deposits.	cause_general
Sue-Lin Wong contributed research.	error
Zhang’s most recent feature film was “The Flowers of War” starring Christian Bale; China entered it into the Oscar contest for best foreign film of 2011.	distant_historical
Early in his career, Zhang made a string of films that became popular on the international film festival circuit and in foreign art theaters, including “Red Sorghum,” “Raise the Red Lantern” and “To Live,” adaptations of well-known literary works.	distant_historical
He achieved commercial success with “Hero,” a martial arts film, and was commissioned by Communist Party leaders to direct the opening ceremony of the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.	distant_historical
Zhang, 61, is a member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, a sort of honorary legislature whose seats are often distributed by the party as political rewards.	cause_general
Zhang’s critics say he has changed over the years from a director with an uncompromising vision to one who bows to the whims of party officials.	distant_evaluation
In an interview in Beijing with The New York Times published in 2012, Zhang said censorship “can’t be changed, and it will be there in the future.” He added: “Foreigners think that because I did the opening ceremony of the Olympics, I have certain privileges, but in fact it’s not like that at all.	distant_evaluation
In front of censorship, everyone is equal.”	distant_evaluation
Zhang could not be reached for comment Thursday.	cause_general
There has been a recent push by scholars to end the one-child policy, which critics say has led to forced abortions and sterilizations.	distant_evaluation
Some economists say that China will face a dwindling pool of young workers in the coming years, and that it no longer makes sense to continue the policy.	distant_expectations_consequences
BEIJING – China’s most celebrated film director, Zhang Yimou, is being investigated for a potential violation of family planning laws, an official said Thursday, confirming reports in state news media.	main
Furthermore, for economic reasons, the birthrate is falling across China, especially in urban areas.	distant_evaluation
There is no reliable public report that gives the exact number of children Zhang has with Chen, an actress.	cause_general
The recent surge of interest among Chinese Internet users in Zhang’s children appeared to have begun Monday, when Southern Entertainment Weekly published an article that said the couple had two sons and a daughter.	cause_specific
That assertion has not been independently confirmed and the article did not name the sources of the information.	cause_general
The reporter and a photographer camped outside Zhang’s many homes in Beijing, and the photographer followed a car of his to the airport and witnessed what appeared to be some family members emerging from the car, the article said.	cause_specific
Zhang has a daughter with his first wife, Xiao Hua, whom he divorced around the time he was in a relationship with Gong Li, who starred in Zhang’s early films and became China’s best-known actress.	cause_general
The daughter, Zhang Mo, is about 30 and studied filmmaking at New York University.	cause_general
She has worked as a film editor for her father and was a translator for Bale on the set of “The Flowers of War.”	cause_general
The People’s Daily report said there was speculation that Zhang may have three other children with two other women, but it did not give their identities.	cause_general
Family planning officials are examining discussions on the Internet that say Zhang has fathered up to seven children with four women.	main
If he is found to have violated the laws, he could be fined nearly $27 million because the fines are based on the offender’s income, according to a report in the online edition of People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Communist Party.	distant_expectations_consequences
An official in a propaganda office attached to the family planning committee of Jiangsu province, near Shanghai on the east coast, confirmed the substance of the People’s Daily report, which was published Wednesday.	cause_general
Calls to the family planning committee of Wuxi, the city where Chen Ting, Zhang’s second wife, is registered as a resident, went unanswered Thursday.	cause_general
Family planning laws generally restrict families to one child, and fines are levied for additional children.	cause_general
There are numerous exceptions, though: Many rural families and ethnic minorities are allowed to have more than one child without penalty.	cause_general
Xinhua, the state news agency, said Thursday that the local family planning committee would release the results of its investigation into Zhang soon.	distant_expectations_consequences
COLTS NECK, N.J. – With 10 children kneeling around the altar for their first communion and the pews at St. Mary’s Church packed with families gathered for Mother’s Day, there was little sign Sunday of the turmoil that has struck the parish, and threatens the Archdiocese of Newark.	distant_evaluation
Late last year, the Newark archbishop, John J. Myers, assigned Fugee to become co-director of the Office of Continuing Education and Ongoing Formation of Priests, which caused critics of how the church has handled sex abuse issues among its clergy to call for Myers to step down.	distant_historical
That criticism escalated after The Star-Ledger published an article on April 28 revealing that Fugee had been working with youth groups at St. Mary’s, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Trenton Archdiocese.	cause_general
The article said the priest had attended weekend youth retreats, traveled with the church’s youth group to Canada, and heard confessions from minors behind closed doors.	cause_general
On Wednesday, Steve Sweeney, president of the New Jersey Senate, released a statement calling the accusations “deeply disturbing.”	distant_evaluation
“Those who are put in a position of trust, whether it be through elected office, as a coach, or as a person of faith, must be held to a higher standard,” the statement said.	distant_evaluation
“And when we are talking about children, that need to trust those in charge leaves absolutely no margin for error.	distant_evaluation
Archbishop Myers must step down now.”	distant_evaluation
Myers was unaware of Fugee’s work in Colts Neck until the archdiocese was asked about it by a Star-Ledger reporter, his spokesman, James Goodness, said Sunday.	distant_evaluation
When he learned of the work, Myers moved to suspend Fugee, who voluntarily left the ministry May 2, Goodness said.	cause_general
The archbishop, who will return this week from a previously scheduled trip to Poland, plans to speak publicly about the issue soon after, Goodness said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Just two weeks earlier, the parishioners learned that a minister working with their church’s youth groups had been barred from being around children unsupervised – a restriction he accepted to avoid retrial on a sex abuse charge.	main
The Diocese of Trenton also said it was unaware of Fugee’s involvement with the Colts Neck church until it was contacted by a reporter.	distant_evaluation
The archdiocese said the parish’s two youth group ministers, Michael and Amy Lenehan, had improperly invited Fugee to participate in the youth program without approval from the diocese or the church’s pastor, the Rev.	cause_general
Thomas J. Triggs.	cause_general
During Masses on the weekend of May 4 and 5, a statement from the Trenton bishop, David M. O’Connell, was read to parishioners in Colts Neck, saying the “troubling events” made clear that a change in leadership was in the best interest of everyone involved.	main
The statement said the Lenehans had resigned and that Triggs was being reassigned.	main
“There are few things in life as important as protecting our children and young people,” O’Connell said in the statement, adding that he prayed “that this community of faith will move forward together, that any anger or hurt will subside and that the Lord will bless our efforts to serve one another in his name.”	main
A note tucked into the program for Mass on Sunday announced that the Rev.	cause_general
Jeffrey Lee, the pastor of Our Lady of Angels Church in Trenton, would be the church’s new pastor.	cause_general
In services Sunday, Lee made no mention of the recent troubles.	cause_general
“I think everyone was just shocked; there’s no other way to put it,” Darren Barreiro, a father of three girls, said as he left Mass on Sunday.	distant_anecdotal
The priest, Michael Fugee, was convicted in 2003 of criminal sexual conduct stemming from allegations that he had groped a boy’s crotch during several wrestling horseplay encounters when he was associate pastor at St. Elizabeth Church in Wyckoff.	distant_historical
Three years later, an appellate court overturned the conviction, in part because the judge allowed jurors to hear a statement Fugee made to the police saying he was attracted to males, according to The Star-Ledger of Newark.	distant_historical
Rather than begin another trial, Fugee and the Bergen County prosecutor’s office signed an agreement that he would enter sex-offender treatment and have no unsupervised contact with children as part of his church duties.	cause_specific
The 2007 agreement was also signed by the Archdiocese of Newark, which was required to ensure that Fugee was not assigned any tasks that would put him in a position to have unsupervised contact with children, including involvement with youth groups, attending youth retreats or hearing confessions of children.	cause_specific
Fugee’s name came up again in 2009, when he was appointed chaplain at St. Michael’s Medical Center in Newark, a position the Newark Archdiocese said did not put him in contact with children because the hospital did not have a pediatric unit.	distant_historical
But after inquiries, he was removed from that post.	distant_historical
NEW YORK – During the sentencing of the former hedge fund manager Anthony Chiasson on Monday, Judge Richard J. Sullivan marveled at his prodigious wealth, ticking off the annual income listed on his tax returns.	cause_general
They have brought on Mark F. Pomerantz, a lawyer at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, to handle the appeal.	cause_general
Chiasson was tried last year alongside Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management.	distant_historical
The government accused them of being the two most senior Wall Street traders in an eight-member “criminal club” that made $72 million in profits by trading shares of Dell and Nvidia based on corporate secrets obtained from inside those companies.	distant_historical
After a six-week trial, a jury convicted Chiasson and Newman.	distant_historical
Earlier this month, Sullivan sentenced Newman to 4 1/2 years in prison.	cause_general
Chiasson’s case is one of several insider-trading prosecutions that have touched SAC Capital Advisors, the giant hedge fund owned by the billionaire stock picker Steven A. Cohen that has become a central target of the government’s investigation.	cause_general
Prosecutors charged two former SAC employees with participating in the insider-trading ring involving Chiasson.	cause_general
Jon Horvath, a former SAC technology stock analyst, has admitted to being a part of the scheme.	cause_general
In March, Horvath’s boss, Michael S. Steinberg, was indicted.	cause_general
He is fighting the charges and is scheduled to go on trial in November before Sullivan.	distant_expectations_consequences
“$16 million, $10 million, $23 million,” he said.	distant_evaluation
“It’s hard to imagine why someone would risk all that to engage in a crime like this,” the judge said.	distant_evaluation
The crime is insider trading, and Sullivan of U.S. District Court in Manhattan handed down one of the stiffest sentences yet in the government’s vast campaign to root out wrongdoing on Wall Street trading floors.	cause_specific
He sentenced Chiasson, a founder of Level Global Investors, to 6 1/2 years in prison after a jury found him guilty in December of illegally trading technology stocks.	main
“This kind of conduct can’t go unpunished,” Sullivan said.	distant_evaluation
Chiasson, 39, who did not address the court, was ordered to pay a $5 million fine and forfeit illegally obtained proceeds of as much as $2 million.	cause_general
He must report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons in 90 days.	cause_general
His legal team, led by Reid H. Weingarten of Steptoe & Johnson and Gregory Morvillo of Morvillo Law, is appealing his conviction.	cause_general
LONDON - Tony Hayward was appointed interim chairman of the mining company Glencore Xstrata on Thursday, almost three years after he resigned as chief executive of BP in the wake of a huge oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.	main
He had faced anger in November when shareholders voted against multimillion-dollar bonuses that were aimed at retaining some of Xstrata’s senior managers.	cause_general
On Thursday, however, Bond, who received less than 20 percent approval from investors to be reappointed chairman, told shareholders he did not have enough support to continue in his role.	cause_general
“I recognize and respect the strong opposition among many to the retention arrangements which the board felt appropriate to ensure management stability,” Bond said in a statement, in reference to the vetoed bonuses.	distant_evaluation
The changes come as the chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, has announced plans to reduce costs at Glencore Xstrata.	cause_general
The appointment of Hayward, currently a senior independent director at the company, comes after the departure of Glencore Xstrata’s chairman, John Bond, who failed to receive enough shareholder support at an investor meeting Thursday to retain his position.	cause_specific
The new role represents a significant turnaround for Hayward, who was widely criticized for his role in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010.	distant_evaluation
Since leaving BP, Hayward has become chief executive of Genel Energy, which is exploring for energy reserves in northern Iraq.	cause_general
Hayward will step down from his new position at Glencore Xstrata as soon as a new chairman is appointed, according to a company statement.	distant_expectations_consequences
The executive shuffle at the top of Glencore Xstrata is the most recent management change after the commodities giant Glencore International completed its $30 billion all-stock takeover of the mining company Xstrata on May 2.	cause_general
As part of the deal, Xstrata’s chief executive, Mick Davis, announced that he was leaving the merged company earlier than had been expected, while a number of his top lieutenants have also departed.	cause_general
Steve Robson, a company director, announced his resignation Thursday.	cause_general
Bond, 71, a former chief executive and chairman of the British bank HSBC, had previously said he would step down as Glencore Xstrata chairman as soon as a successor could be found.	distant_evaluation
A 21-year-old college student was shot and killed early Friday on Long Island after an armed man broke into the home she shared with her twin sister, held her hostage and then engaged in a gunbattle with police, authorities said.	main
He was wearing a ski mask and carrying a pistol, police said.	cause_general
He held the twin sisters and the young man hostage but let the other woman leave, police said.	cause_general
That woman took the opportunity to call 911.	cause_general
“Shortly after our arrival, a shooting took place where the suspect is killed and one of the female victims are killed,” said Deputy Inspector Kenneth Lack of the Nassau County Police Department.	cause_general
The details of the shooting were still under investigation, the police said, but it appeared that the gunman and the police exchanged gunfire.	cause_general
The university sent a text message to students Friday alerting them to the shooting, but providing few details.	main_consequence
Hofstra’s president, Stuart Rabinowitz, issued a statement later in the day confirming that a student had been killed.	main_consequence
University officials said commencement ceremonies would go on as scheduled this weekend.	cause_general
Students were planning to gather on campus, where the flags were flown at half-staff, on Friday evening to remember Andrea Rebello.	distant_expectations_consequences
The father of the woman who was allowed to leave the house asked that her name not be used and said his daughter was badly shaken.	distant_anecdotal
The man who forced his way into the home was also killed.	cause_general
It was not immediately clear who fired the fatal shots, police said.	distant_evaluation
The violence played out in the middle of the night on an ordinarily quiet residential street, only blocks from Hofstra University, where the victim went to school.	cause_general
Students who were preparing for their last day of exams awoke to the news that one of their own had been killed.	cause_general
The victim, Andrea Rebello, was a junior from Tarrytown, N.Y., and was studying public relations.	cause_general
She shared the home with her twin, Jessica, and another young woman, according to the police.	cause_general
A young man was also staying at the house at the time.	cause_general
The suspect, who was not identified, knocked on the door of the home around 2:15 a.m., and when one of the residents looked to see who was there, he burst in, according to police.	cause_general
Transocean shareholders Friday ousted board chairman J. Michael Talbert and installed one of billionaire investor Carl Icahn’s nominees as a director, but they rejected Icahn’s proposal for a $4-per-share dividend as too risky at a time when the company still faces financial uncertainties from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.	main
The defeat on the dividend proposal was a big loss for Icahn, who disclosed earlier this year that he had bought a large block of Transocean shares and would pursue change aggressively at the world’s largest offshore drilling contractor.	distant_evaluation
But with one of his nominees on the board, he could increase his influence in company decisions in the future.	distant_expectations_consequences
Prior to the vote, Icahn had cited the company’s poor stock performance.	cause_general
Its share price has dropped by more than a third since the day before an undersea well blew out in 2010 and triggered an explosion on the Transocean-owned Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 workers.	cause_general
The resulting oil spill was the worst offshore spill in U.S. history.	distant_historical
Transocean shares closed Friday down 70 cents at $54.03 in New York trading.	cause_general
Icahn had proposed that shareholders oust directors Talbert, Robert Sprague and Thomas Cason, replacing them with Alapont, former CEO of Federal-Mogul Corp., Merksamer, managing director at Icahn Capital, and Lipinski, CEO and president of CVR Energy.	cause_general
Shareholders concurred only in voting out Talbert and electing Merksamer.	cause_general
In a statement after the votes were announced, Icahn said he was pleased with the support Merksamer received from shareholders.	distant_evaluation
He said he believes shareholders ''sent an unequivocal and vocal message to the incumbent directors and management, by voting out the chairman, that immediate discipline must be brought to all fiscal and capital allocation decisions.''	distant_evaluation
According to vote totals announced at the company’s annual meeting in Zug, Switzerland, shareholders chose by a big margin to go with the company’s $2.24-a-share dividend proposal.	cause_general
He added, ''We expect that the newly constituted board will take prompt action to deliver that sorely needed change.''	distant_expectations_consequences
His statement made no mention of the dividend defeat.	cause_general
The board’s governance committee will lead the process of selecting a new chairman, but the company did not detail plans for that Friday or give a timetable.	cause_general
optional	error
Talbert had been a long-time board member of Transocean and former CEO of the company.	cause_general
Sprague is an engineer by education who served for years as an executive at Royal Dutch Shell before retiring from the company.	cause_general
Cason owns and manages equipment dealership related to the agricultural industry and is a former chief financial officer at oil field services firm Baker Hughes.	cause_general
Also at the meeting, Newman was re-elected to the board for a three-year term and company nominee Frederico Curado, who is chief of Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer S.A., was elected to join the board for a three-year term.	cause_general
Other business on the agenda for the meeting included the re-adoption of the company’s authorized share capital for another two years.	cause_general
The proposal was rejected because it did not receive enough votes in favor, according to a company statement.	cause_general
It will be payable in four quarterly installments, set for June, September and December of this year and March of 2014.	cause_general
end optional	error
Newman said a silver lining of the proxy contest is that it increased shareholder engagement.	distant_evaluation
Now, he said, it’s back to work.	distant_evaluation
Transocean has to continue to build on its assets, create shareholder value and remove uncertainties clouding the company, he said.	distant_evaluation
''I think everybody wants the stock price to continue to improve,'' Newman said.	distant_evaluation
One of the big uncertainties is the still-pending litigation in federal court in New Orleans over the Gulf oil spill.	distant_evaluation
XXX - End of Story<3D>	error
In the vote for directors, shareholders chose Icahn nominee Samuel Merksamer and rejected Talbert, who said this week he would step down before next year’s meeting if he was re-elected.	cause_general
Shareholders approved the rest of the company’s director nominees, rejecting Icahn candidates Jose Maria Alapont and John Lipinski.	cause_general
CEO Steven Newman said in a telephone interview that the shareholders’ decisions were largely a victory for the company and its goals, and that the dividend vote in particular was ''an overwhelming endorsement.''	distant_evaluation
He noted that more than 75 percent of shares voted favored the company’s proposal.	cause_general
And he praised the departing board chairman, who also served formerly as CEO.	distant_evaluation
''He has been instrumental in shepherding this company through growth, through an unprecedented industrial crisis and more recently helping the board and the management teams focus on the right priorities,'' Newman said.	distant_evaluation
RIO DE JANEIRO – The Brazilian police have arrested a businessman listed by the United States as a member of Hezbollah, the powerful Lebanese militant group, under suspicion of operating a fraudulent scheme in the clothing industry – a far cry from the arms, drugs, explosives and counterfeit bills that U.S. officials have suspected him of trafficking in the past.	main
After the Treasury Department described the links of Barakat and eight others in the Triple Frontier region to Hezbollah, Brazil’s government responded by saying that there were no signs of terrorism financing in the border region, which has long attracted large numbers of immigrants from the Middle East.	distant_evaluation
In 2004, the Treasury Department called Barakat’s brother, Assad Ahmad Barakat, one of Hezbollah’s “most prominent and influential members,” and said he used an electronics wholesale store in the Triple Frontier as a cover for raising funds for Hezbollah.	distant_historical
Brazilian police arrested Assad Ahmad Barakat in 2002 and deported him to Paraguay, where he went to prison for tax evasion.	distant_historical
Officials with Brazil’s Civil Police said the suspect, Hamzi Ahmad Barakat, 50, a Lebanese citizen with ties to the Triple Frontier region of Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay, was arrested Thursday in the city of Curitiba in southern Brazil in connection with creating a network of front companies to defraud Lebanese immigrants who had recently arrived in Brazil.	main
The arrest focuses new attention on the Triple Frontier, a smuggler’s haven that has long been under the scrutiny of intelligence agencies from the United States, Israel and South American nations.	distant_evaluation
In 2006, the Treasury Department designated Barakat as a member of Hezbollah and said he owned and managed a store in Paraguay that “served as a source of funding” for the group, which the United States considers a terrorist organization.	distant_historical
Cassiano Aufiero, the police investigator in charge of the case, said that officials were aware that Barakat had been linked to Hezbollah but added that their investigation was in connection to other activities.	cause_general
Aufiero said that charges against Barakat would include embezzlement and creating false documents in schemes involving the resale of clothing.	distant_expectations_consequences
“He was preying on his own countrymen, using their identities to create companies to carry out schemes,” Aufiero said.	distant_evaluation
Barakat has been held in a state penitentiary in Curitiba since his arrest, he said.	cause_general
John Sullivan, a spokesman for the Treasury Department in Washington, says that the description of Barakat as a Hezbollah member still stands.	cause_general
MEXICO CITY – Guatemala’s highest court on Monday threw out the genocide conviction and prison sentence of the former dictator Gen. Efrain Rios Montt, ruling to rewind the trial to its final days.	main
Rios Montt was found to be responsible for a series of massacres and rapes and the forced displacement of the Maya-Ixil ethnic group during his 17-month rule in 1982 and 1983.	cause_general
During a month of prosecution testimony, the court heard wrenching descriptions by survivors of the army’s scorched-earth policy through the hamlets of the Mayan highlands.	cause_general
His co-defendant, Gen. Jose Mauricio Rodriguez Sanchez, was acquitted.	cause_general
The constitutional court’s ruling effectively throws out his acquittal, and it is unclear whether he will be rearrested.	distant_expectations_consequences
The attorney general’s office is expected to appeal the court’s 3-2 ruling on Tuesday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Although the verdict was celebrated by international human rights organizations, it was controversial in Guatemala.	distant_evaluation
The Constitutional Court was the target of a lobbying campaign by opponents of the verdict as it considered several defense injunctions it had failed to rule on during the trial.	cause_general
Perhaps the most important campaign was by Guatemala’s powerful business federation, known as Cacif for the initials of its Spanish name.	distant_evaluation
Representing the country’s deeply conservative oligarchy, Cacif urged the court to overturn the verdict.	distant_evaluation
The court “has the power in its hands to contribute to the governability and assure an effective rule of law,” the business group said.	distant_evaluation
The decision by Guatemala’s Constitutional Court is a dramatic legal victory for Rios Montt, 86, and a blow to human rights advocates who called his conviction a sign that Guatemala’s courts would no longer allow impunity for the country’s powerful.	distant_evaluation
Rios Montt was sent to prison immediately after the verdict on May 10 but was transferred to a military hospital three days later for medical tests.	cause_general
The decision means that he will return to house arrest, where he had been held since the case against him began in January 2012.	main_consequence
A three-panel tribunal found him guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity, and he was sentenced to 80 years in prison.	cause_general
But Monday’s ruling did not throw out the entire trial.	cause_general
Instead, it rolled back the proceedings to April 19, when a complex decision by a pretrial judge sent the trial into disarray.	cause_specific
The Constitutional Court issued several confusing rulings that the trial judges interpreted to allow them to continue the proceedings.	cause_specific
Legal experts said it was unlikely that the final days of the trial would be repeated because that would amount to a form of double jeopardy for the former dictator.	distant_evaluation
DHAKA, Bangladesh - A factory building that collapsed last month outside Dhaka, killing more than 1,000 workers in the deadliest disaster in the history of the garment industry, was constructed with substandard materials and in blatant disregard for building codes, a high-level government report issued Wednesday concluded.	main
Rana illegally constructed upper floors to house garment factories employing several thousand workers, it said.	main
Large power generators placed on these upper floors, necessary because of regular power failures, would shake the poorly constructed building whenever they were switched on, according to the report.	main
On April 23, cracks had appeared in the building, shaking the structure enough that many workers fled.	cause_specific
An engineer called to inspect the structure warned that it was unsafe.	distant_anecdotal
Yet Rana and the factory bosses discounted any concerns and ordered their workers into the building the next morning, the government report concluded.	main
A generator soon switched on, and the building buckled and collapsed, in what became a scene of horror.	cause_specific
Khandaker’s report recommended that Rana and the factory owners be charged with culpable homicide.	main
He also suggested that Rana had bribed local officials for construction approvals.	distant_evaluation
The 400-page report on the collapse of the Rana Plaza building in Savar, an industrial suburb of Dhaka, the capital, found widespread fault for the April 24 disaster, which killed 1,127 people.	main
It blamed the mayor for wrongly granting construction approvals and recommended charges for the building’s owner, Sohel Rana, as well for as the owners of the five garment factories in the building, that could result in life sentences if they are convicted.	distant_expectations_consequences
The factory owners urged workers to return to their jobs despite evidence that the building was unsafe, the report said.	main
“They compelled them to start,” said Main Uddin Khandaker, a high-ranking official in Bangladesh’s Home Ministry, who led the investigation.	distant_evaluation
The Rana Plaza disaster has focused global attention on unsafe conditions in the garment industry in Bangladesh, which is now the world’s second-leading exporter of clothing, trailing only China.	distant_evaluation
Bangladesh has more than 5,000 garment factories, handling orders for nearly all of the world’s top brands and retailers.	cause_general
It has become an export powerhouse largely by delivering lower costs, in part by having the lowest wages in the world for garment workers.	distant_evaluation
Rana Plaza was a disaster waiting to happen, the government report suggested.	main
BEIJING – A North Korean envoy visiting China said his country would “accept the proposal” by Chinese officials to open up dialogue, the China News Service reported Thursday, a possible signal that the North would agree to talks on its nuclear program.	main
There have been no reports so far of Choe meeting with senior Chinese officials involved in foreign policy and military affairs.	cause_general
The publicized meetings have been with senior officials of the Communist Party who are the usual interlocutors with North Korea.	cause_general
On Wednesday, Choe met with Wang Jiarui, head of the International Department of the Communist Party of China.	cause_general
The North Korean news agency said Choe visited an industrial park in Beijing on Thursday.	cause_general
China’s basic advice to North Korea has been that it should reform its economy following the path of Deng Xiaoping, with special economic zones and some private enterprise.	distant_evaluation
Although North Korea has sometimes embarked on such reforms, the government has later pulled back, perhaps for fear of losing control in one of the world’s most tightly controlled countries.	distant_evaluation
North Korean experts in China say they detect little change in China’s underlying policy of supporting North Korea.	distant_evaluation
But the Chinese leadership would like North Korea to modify its erratic behavior, stop nuclear tests and halt its missile program, they say.	distant_expectations_consequences
How to reach that goal with Kim has not been resolved, some of the analysts said.	distant_evaluation
The marshal’s visit came just days after the announcement that President Xi Jingping of China and President Barack Obama intended to meet in California next month, suggesting that the North was concerned that its recent actions had pushed China and the United States closer.	distant_expectations_consequences
The comments were reported after the envoy, Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, met Liu Yunshan, who is a member of the Communist Party Standing Committee and the politician who heads ideological affairs for the Communist Party.	cause_general
Wang Gunsheng, an analyst at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said the visit of Choe could be interpreted as a “kind of apology” by North Korea for its recent behavior.	distant_evaluation
Liu was quoted as repeating a frequent appeal by China for a resumption of talks that would result in the removal of nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula “as soon as possible.”	distant_evaluation
Few diplomats believe that the North is prepared to be involved in so-called six-party talks that aim to strip North Korea of its nuclear weapons.	distant_evaluation
The international six-party talks on the North’s nuclear program – involving the United States, North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan and Russia – collapsed in 2008 after North Korea walked out, but the United States has been pushing in recent weeks for them to be restarted.	distant_historical
China is North Korea’s biggest benefactor, but relations have been strained in recent months.	distant_evaluation
Experts say the North bridles at China’s stiff demands for low-priced natural resources, and that Chinese officials are annoyed by the North’s defiance of entreaties to refrain from missile and nuclear tests, the lastest of which was conducted in February.	distant_evaluation
The visit by Choe, a close aide to the North’s new leader, Kim Jong Un, was seen by many analysts as a fence-mending mission.	cause_specific
Choe, 72, was quoted by the China News Service as being “highly” appreciative of “China’s huge efforts to maintain peace and stability” on the Korean Peninsula.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
Dozens of police officers then moved toward the crowd and began spraying the protesters with water cannons.	main
For the first time in more than 20 days, the police did not use tear gas to force protesters away from Taksim Square.	cause_general
But the police did fire it at protesters on some side streets and at least one entrance to the square.	cause_general
“I was not standing on the road, which the police asked us to clear, so I thought I should be fine,” Gonul Duzer, a 24-year-old student, said as she held red carnations in her hand.	distant_anecdotal
“I wanted to hand these to them, but instead they pushed me away with their shields and said our right to protest was over.”	distant_anecdotal
Demonstrators and passers-by sought shelter in nearby cafes that sealed off their windows, in case the police used tear gas, and emptied terraces overlooking the square.	cause_general
On Saturday, Erdogan claimed that the protests were carried out “with malicious intentions.”	distant_evaluation
“You became the pawns in a dirty game and were deceived gravely,” he said, according to the semiofficial Anatolian news agency, referring to young activists who have been attending protests in more than 60 cities.	distant_evaluation
“Nobody but God will have the power to overthrow our government,” Erdogan said at a rally in Samsun, a town on the Black Sea coast.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
ISTANBUL - Turkish police Saturday used water cannons to scatter thousands of people who had gathered in Taksim Square here to commemorate four people killed during the nationwide anti-government protests that have gripped Turkey for more than two weeks.	main
Representatives of the peaceful protesters read a statement of their demands before turning to Gezi Park, the center of a campaign to save the only green patch in Istanbul’s center.	cause_specific
But that environmental campaign has quickly blossomed into a protest against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s autocratic and dismissive reaction toward the protesters.	cause_specific
A few activists, representing Taksim Solidarity, an umbrella group, left red carnations at the entrance to Gezi Park, which has been blocked by the police since last Saturday.	cause_general
Some members of the crowd threw carnations at police vehicles or attached them to their wired windows.	cause_general
The police warned the crowd to disperse, but the protesters refused to leave Taksim Square and chanted anti-government slogans.	cause_specific
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
A university dean and professor of linguistics, Hamdallah took office with no experience in politics or government, but he was known to be close to Fatah, Abbas’ mainstream party.	cause_general
When Hamdallah was tapped for the post of prime minister, some Palestinian analysts said they expected him to be compliant and not clash with Abbas, an assumption that made Hamdallah’s swift resignation all the more surprising.	distant_expectations_consequences
Mahdi Abdul Hadi, the director of the Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs, an independent research institute in East Jerusalem, said the Palestinian Authority was at “a real impasse,” stuck between the Israeli occupation and halfhearted efforts to reconcile with Hamas, the rival Islamic group that controls the coastal Palestinian territory of Gaza.	distant_evaluation
“It is not a question of who the prime minister is,” Abdul Hadi said, “but of where the Palestinian Authority is heading.”	distant_evaluation
The Palestinian public, which reacted largely with apathy to the political disarray, found some unifying cheer this weekend after a singer from Gaza, Muhammad Assaf, 23, won the title of “Arab Idol” in a popular, pan-Arab singing contest fashioned on the British and U.S. versions.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
JERUSALEM - President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Sunday accepted the resignation of his prime minister, Rami Hamdallah, who had asked to quit two weeks after being sworn into office.	main
The latest power struggles in the West Bank, where the Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule, deepened the image of political disarray, days before Secretary of State John Kerry was expected back in the region to try to revive peace talks with Israel.	distant_expectations_consequences
But in what appeared to be an effort to project a minimal level of stability, a spokesman for Abbas told the official Palestinian news agency Wafa that Abbas asked Hamdallah to stay on in a caretaker role until a replacement could be found.	distant_evaluation
Hamdallah had replaced Salam Fayyad, an internationally respected economist who served as prime minister for six years.	cause_specific
Fayyad quit in April, partly because of a dispute over his powers, but he stayed on as a caretaker until Hamdallah’s appointment.	cause_specific
Palestinian officials said that Hamdallah had resigned because of a conflict over his authority and responsibilities, and they suggested that his primary problem was with his two deputy prime ministers.	cause_specific
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
In Washington, #redpanda was No.	main_consequence
1 in trending topics on Twitter.	main_consequence
ABC News started a blog with “live coverage” of the search.	main_consequence
The zoo said on Twitter that its animal care staff last saw Rusty on Sunday night in his exhibit and had been combing through the nearby trees since 8 a.m. Monday.	cause_general
“Please help us find Rusty,” the zoo pleaded.	distant_evaluation
“He could be sick and hiding.”	distant_evaluation
On its Facebook page, the zoo said that Rusty, an “arboreal, territorial” creature, was most likely napping in a tree nearby.	distant_expectations_consequences
But in an ominous note, the zoo said it was possible that Rusty had been stolen.	distant_expectations_consequences
Rusty’s cause was quickly taken up online by animal lovers and Twitter wits.	cause_general
“Edward Snowden and Rusty the red panda relaxing on a Havana beach,” wrote J.D.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
Ross, referring to the American security contractor who is wanted on spying charges.	distant_evaluation
“Rusty the Red Panda last seen running away from DC in the direction of a city with a decent restaurant scene,” wrote Josh Barro, the politics editor of Business Insider.	distant_evaluation
Newt Gingrich, who often detoured from the campaign trail to visit zoos in his ill-fated 2012 presidential quest (his finger was once nipped by a penguin), also joined the search.	cause_general
“In response to red panda charges, I have an alibi,” he wrote.	distant_evaluation
“Callista and I were feeding our pet elephants all evening (just a joke) help find panda.”	distant_evaluation
Once again, social media proved itself a powerful dragnet.	distant_evaluation
Around 1:15 p.m., a Washingtonian posted a picture on Twitter of Rusty in a patch of weeds in the Adams Morgan district.	cause_general
“Red panda in our neighborhood,” wrote Ashley Foughty, who identified herself as a singer and actress.	cause_general
“Please come save him!”	distant_evaluation
Not long after, the zoo announced on Twitter: “Rusty the red panda has been recovered, crated & is headed safely back to the National Zoo!”	cause_general
);	error
There was an important Supreme Court ruling early in the day.	cause_general
An international fugitive was possibly on a flight from Moscow to Cuba.	cause_general
The Dow was diving.	cause_general
But by midday in the nation’s capital on Monday, a red panda who disappeared from the National Zoo had hijacked the news cycle.	main_consequence
Turning to social media to help find Rusty, a raccoon-sized panda with a striped tail and a cute face, the zoo announced his disappearance on Twitter at 11:51 a.m.	main
The message was forwarded nearly 3,000 times in an hour.	cause_general
Marc Rich, the former fugitive oil trader and founder of the commodities trading giant Glencore International, died on Wednesday in Lucerne, Switzerland.	main
He continued to buy oil from Iran after the country’s 1979 Islamic revolution despite U.S. sanctions against the country, and remained unapologetic about his activities.	distant_historical
“They respected the contracts,” Rich told Daniel Ammann, a Swiss journalist, in 2009, in reference to Iran’s national oil company.	distant_evaluation
“We performed a service for them.	distant_evaluation
We bought the oil, we handled the transport and we sold it.	distant_evaluation
They couldn’t do it themselves, so we were able to do it.”	distant_evaluation
His clients also included the apartheid regime of South Africa and the Sandinista government in Nicaragua.	distant_historical
From 1973, Rich was similarly one of Israel’s most important oil suppliers for more than 20 years, and he held Israeli, Spanish and Belgian citizenship by the end of his life.	distant_historical
In 1983, he fled from the U.S. to Switzerland after he was indicted on charges of fraud, trading with Iran and evading almost $50 million in taxes.	distant_historical
All told, the offenses would have led to more than 300 years in prison.	distant_expectations_consequences
Over the years, Rich claimed that U.S. authorities had attempted several times to bring him to justice, including a plan, which was never carried out, to use a helicopter in Switzerland to capture him, according to a book published by Ammann in 2009.	distant_evaluation
He was 78.	cause_general
After leaving the U.S. and renouncing his citizenship, Rich sold many of his domestic business interests, including 20th Century Fox to Rupert Murdoch for $250 million in 1984.	distant_historical
Glencore, the commodities company he founded, recently acquired the mining company Xstrata for around $30 billion, and has become a global giant in a number of commodities, including oil, iron ore and coal.	cause_general
“We are saddened to hear of the death of Marc.	distant_evaluation
He was a friend and one of the great pioneers of the commodities trading industry,” Glencore-Xstrata’s current chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“Our deepest sympathies and condolences are with his family at this time.”	distant_evaluation
He is expected to be buried in Israel on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
He is survived by two daughters, Ilona Schacter-Rich and Danielle Kilstock Rich.	cause_general
The cause was a brain stroke at a hospital, according to a statement from his spokesman.	cause_specific
Rich courted controversy throughout his colorful career, and was indicted by the U.S. in the early 1980s on charges of tax evasion and illegally trading with Iran.	distant_historical
After being one of the country’s most famous fugitives for the next two decades, Rich eventually received a pardon from President Bill Clinton on his last day in office in early 2001.	distant_historical
The pardon brought the oil trader back into the headlines after it was revealed that Rich’s former wife, Denise Eisenberg, had given donations to the Democratic Party in 2000, according to official records.	distant_historical
Despite his notoriety, Rich, whose net worth was estimated at $2.5 billion, continued to work in the commodities industry, and founded Marc Rich & Co., the precursor of Glencore International, the commodities trader, which he later sold to the company’s management team in 1993.	distant_historical
Rich was born in Antwerp, Belgium, but moved to New York with his family to escape the rise of the Nazis in Germany.	distant_historical
He began his career as a metals trader in the early 1970s, and gained prominence during the 1973-74 oil crisis when he circumvented the Arab oil embargo to sell oil to U.S. companies in desperate need of supplies at increasingly high prices.	distant_historical
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
I wish I could die more than once to tell you how sorry I am.”	distant_evaluation
His words did not die with him.	cause_general
Texas wrote them down, kept them and posted them on the Internet.	main
The state with the busiest death chamber in America publishes the final statements of the inmates it has executed on a prison agency website, a kind of public catalog of the rantings, apologies, prayers, claims of innocence and confessions of hundreds of men and women in the minutes before their deaths.	main
The condemned praised Allah and Jesus and Sant Ajaib Singh Ji, a Sikh master.	cause_general
Three cheered for their favorite sports teams, including Jesse Hernandez, whose execution last year made headlines after he shouted, “Go Cowboys!”	distant_historical
The execution on Wednesday of Kimberly McCarthy - a 52-year-old woman convicted of robbing, beating and fatally stabbing a retired psychology professor near Dallas - was the 500th in Texas since December 1982, when the state resumed capital punishment after the Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976.	cause_general
The state’s execution record has often been criticized.	distant_evaluation
But three decades of last statements by inmates reveal a glimmer of the humanity behind those anonymous numbers.	distant_evaluation
“It’s kind of mesmerizing to read through these,” said Robert Perkinson, the author of “Texas Tough: The Rise of America’s Prison Empire” and a professor at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
“Most people about to be executed haven’t had a lot of success in school or life.	distant_evaluation
They’re not always so skilled at articulating themselves.	distant_evaluation
There are plenty of clichés, sometimes peculiar ones, like the Cowboys reference.	distant_evaluation
But I think many of these individuals are also striving to say something poignant, worthy of the existential occasion.”	distant_evaluation
);	error
HUNTSVILLE, Texas - Karl Eugene Chamberlain went to his neighbor’s apartment that night in Dallas under the pretense of borrowing sugar.	distant_historical
He returned later, forced her into a bedroom, bound her hands and feet, raped her and then used a rifle to shoot and kill her.	distant_historical
His victim, Felecia Prechtl, 29, was a single mother with a 5-year-old son.	distant_historical
Eleven years after he was convicted of capital murder, Chamberlain, 37, was strapped to a gurney in Texas’ execution chamber at the Walls Unit prison here and was asked by a warden if he had any last words.	distant_historical
“Thank you for being here today to honor Felecia Prechtl, whom I didn’t even know,” he told her son, parents and brother on June 11, 2008.	distant_evaluation
“I am so terribly sorry.	distant_evaluation
EDS: CHANGES headline; EDITS 3rd graf to add name of State Dept.	error
The violence Friday provided a dark prelude to planned mass protests Sunday by Morsi’s opponents, who are demanding that the president step down and early elections be held.	distant_expectations_consequences
Fears about possible violence at the marches have preoccupied the country for weeks and further split Egypt’s deeply polarized political class.	distant_evaluation
In recent days, both the army and Egypt’s highest religious authority have warned about the potential for deadly civil strife.	distant_expectations_consequences
On Friday, the United States warned its citizens to defer “nonessential” travel to Egypt and said it was allowing some of its embassy employees and their families to leave the country because of the political unrest.	cause_general
At least seven people have been killed in violent episodes over the past three days outside Cairo.	cause_general
The Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s largest Islamist party and the movement that brought Morsi to power, said several of its supporters were killed in attacks on its offices and on mosques.	cause_general
In Cairo, tens of thousands of people took to the streets in competing protests that remained separate, and as a result, largely peaceful.	cause_general
Anti-government protesters gathered in Tahrir Square, around the Defense Ministry and in front of the presidential palace, which has been ringed with new barriers, including concrete blocks and shipping containers.	cause_general
Calls for Morsi to resign have intensified as Egypt lurches from crisis to crisis, the most recent one over the endless gas lines that have clogged roads around the country.	distant_evaluation
spokesman and confirmation of death; EDITS graf beginning “In recent days, both...” to detail U.S. travel advisory regarding Egypt; MINOR edits; (This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
CAIRO - At least three people were killed and hundreds were injured across Egypt on Friday, as anti-government protesters ransacked Muslim Brotherhood offices and tens of thousands of supporters and opponents of President Mohammed Morsi held dueling rallies in the capital.	cause_general
While the protests in Cairo remained peaceful, deadly clashes erupted in the port city of Alexandria, where protesters set fire to the Brotherhood’s headquarters.	cause_general
Security officials said that among the victims was a U.S. citizen, a man stabbed to death near the headquarters.	main
The security official said it was not clear who had attacked the man, and the official was not able to provide information about a second victim in the city.	distant_evaluation
A State Department spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, confirmed that a U.S. citizen was killed in Alexandria but said he had no further information.	main
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
Days before his term ended in 1999, he disappeared, but was caught two years later in Cancún, where he was convicted on organized crime and corruption offenses, imprisoned and then extradited in 2010 to the United States, which had indicted him in 2001.	distant_historical
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said he had more than $17 million in a number of U.S. accounts that had been seized, including one at Lehman Bros.	cause_general
Villanueva pleaded guilty to the federal count in August.	cause_specific
“With his sentence today, Villanueva Madrid completes his descent from elected government official to corrupted official to incarcerated felon,” said Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan.	distant_evaluation
Villanueva is the latest in a growing list of former Mexican governors making headlines over corruption allegations.	cause_general
Andrés Granier, who until December was the governor of Tabasco state, was arrested this week on suspicion of embezzling millions of dollars in state funds.	cause_general
A former governor of Aguascalientes state, Luis Armando Reynoso Femat, is being investigated for malfeasance.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
MEXICO CITY - A former Mexican governor was sentenced Friday to nearly 11 years in prison in the United States after pleading guilty in New York to a federal charge of conspiring to launder millions of dollars in drug cartel bribes to allow cocaine to move freely through his state.	main
Shortly after becoming the governor of Quintana Roo state - popular for its vacation resort Cancún - in 1993, Mario Villanueva Madrid, 65, made the kind of deal U.S. law-enforcement officials have suspected local officials of making more often than they are able to prove.	distant_historical
Prosecutors said Villanueva had agreed to let the Juárez cartel, then one of the largest and most powerful, to transport cocaine from Colombia through Quintana Roo and on to the United States in exchange for up to $500,000 per shipment.	distant_historical
Traffickers were free to unload drug shipments at a state government hangar of a local airport, Mexican authorities have said.	distant_historical
Villanueva - nicknamed El Chueco, or “the Crooked One” - spread his capital through banks in the United States, Switzerland and the Bahamas.	distant_historical
Mexican authorities first began investigating Villanueva while he was governor.	distant_historical
EDS: CLARIFIES in third graf who owns which companies.	error
“You should be proud of what you’ve accomplished and what we are all now a part of: the first truly global trade book publishing company.	distant_evaluation
Together, we are even better positioned to fulfill our core purpose: to bridge authors and readers by publishing the very best books.”	distant_evaluation
Bertelsmann acquired Random House in 1998 for more than $1 billion.	distant_historical
David Shanks, the chief executive of Penguin Group USA, has stepped down and will be a senior adviser to Dohle and the executive team, Dohle said in his letter to employees.	main_consequence
John Makinson, the head of Penguin Group since 2002, will be the chairman of Penguin Random House.	main_consequence
“Penguin Random House starts life today as a freshly minted company, but also as a creative enterprise that will draw on the greatest legacies in the history of book publishing,” Makinson said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
Over the last several months, executives at both companies have sought to assure employees on the publishing side that it will be business as usual.	distant_evaluation
There are no immediate plans for laying off employees or shuttering imprints.	distant_expectations_consequences
Executives at Penguin and Random House said the initial focus would be on unifying the infrastructure of the companies, including establishing pay scales, health benefits and new email addresses.	distant_expectations_consequences
There will also be an effort to sort out redundancies.	distant_expectations_consequences
);	error
As physical book sales decrease, so does the need for gigantic warehouses to store and ship books; the newly combined company is likely to find ways to trim printing, distribution and storage costs.	distant_expectations_consequences
Random House and Penguin completed their planned merger Monday, creating the biggest and most powerful book publisher in the world.	main
The new company, called Penguin Random House, will control more than 25 percent of the U.S. trade book market, giving it unmatched leverage against Amazon.com, a growing force in the industry.	main_consequence
Bertelsmann, the owner of Random House, and Pearson, the owner of Penguin, announced the merger in October, saying that Bertelsmann would control 53 percent of the company and Penguin 47 percent.	distant_historical
Since then, the merger has sailed through regulatory approvals in the United States and Europe, as well as China, Canada and other countries.	cause_specific
The new company would have more than 10,000 employees, 250 independent publishing imprints and about $3.9 billion in annual revenues.	main_consequence
Markus Dohle, the chairman and chief executive of Random House who will take on the role of chief executive of the new company, announced the finalization of the merger in an email to employees Monday.	cause_general
“Today, we are Penguin Random House,” he wrote.	main
PARIS - Czech prosecutors asked the Parliament on Monday to strip former Prime Minister Petr Necas of immunity from prosecution.	main
“So far, all the information we have shows that this whole case is about criminalizing political decisions.	distant_evaluation
I refuse this approach.	distant_evaluation
I find it unacceptable and I shall not accept it.	distant_evaluation
I am ready to defend myself.”	distant_evaluation
Jindrich Sidlo, a commentator for Hospodarske Noviny, a leading economic newspaper, said on Monday that going ahead with charges in the case would turn Czech politics upside down.	distant_expectations_consequences
“If this political deal is bribery, then this would be the end of politics in the Czech Republic as we have known it for the past 20 years,” he said by telephone from Prague.	distant_evaluation
But Ivo Istvan, the chief prosecutor in the case, said that using a state job to entice a lawmaker to resign did constitute bribery, no different than offering a briefcase full of money.	distant_evaluation
“If a member of Parliament does not act in the public interest in order to be awarded a state job, we can speak about political corruption,” Istvan said.	distant_evaluation
“We need to ask if Parliament is a place where parliamentarians vote according to their conscience or according to what it can buy them.”	distant_evaluation
The parliamentary committee that deals with immunity is scheduled to discuss the case July 17, with a vote by the full Parliament expected to take place in September.	distant_expectations_consequences
Law enforcement officials said the request was a prelude to charging Necas with corruption.	distant_expectations_consequences
Analysts said it was difficult to predict the outcome.	distant_evaluation
President Milos Zeman has appointed Jiri Rusnok, a leftist former finance minister, to replace Necas.	cause_general
Zeman is expected to approve Rusnok’s Cabinet on Wednesday, with a vote of confidence in Parliament to follow within 30 days.	distant_expectations_consequences
Necas would be the highest-level official to face corruption charges in the country since the fall of communism.	distant_expectations_consequences
A bookish, churchgoing father of four, Necas came to power in 2010 promising to clean up a culture of cronyism and corruption, but he was forced to resign last month after his chief of staff was charged with bribery and abuse of office.	cause_general
The chief of staff - Jana Nagyova, a close confidante of Necas - is accused of ordering the secret services to spy on Necas’ estranged wife, whom he is divorcing.	cause_general
Nagyova has also been charged with offering bribes in the form of posts at state-owned companies to three members of Parliament who opposed a government austerity plan.	cause_general
Prosecutors said they were examining whether Necas had links to the bribery scheme, which some analysts and supporters of Necas have dismissed as the routine trading of political favors rather than a criminal act.	cause_specific
Necas said Monday that no agreement had been made with the three lawmakers, and that, in any case, political agreements could not be considered crimes.	distant_evaluation
“It is not clear to me what I should be charged with,” he said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
by John Romano,	error
''I’m mad.	distant_evaluation
This has gotten personal, and I’m not going to let it go,'' Yaffe said Monday.	distant_expectations_consequences
''Who would ever think that if you give your money to a bank, they won’t give it back to you when you ask for it?''	distant_evaluation
This story begins more than 30 years ago when Yaffe began turning his spare cash into cashier’s checks at Central Fidelity Bank in Richmond, Va., where he was an optometrist.	distant_historical
The idea, he said, was to have emergency funds to take with him on long sailing trips.	distant_evaluation
The checks, totaling $11,800, went unused and Yaffe stashed them in a safe deposit box when he retired to Sarasota a short time later.	distant_historical
With his medical condition worsening and a transplant or dialysis likely, Yaffe, 73, retrieved the checks last year, figuring his prescription costs would soon skyrocket.	distant_historical
He deposited the funds in an account, but Wells Fargo soon notified him that the checks were invalid.	cause_specific
The bank, Yaffe said, told him they could not find the necessary paper trail.	cause_specific
Central Fidelity was sold to Wachovia in 1998, and Wachovia was acquired by Wells Fargo in 2009.	distant_historical
Times Columnist	error
The Virginia Department of Treasury found a record for one of the checks in unclaimed funds and sent Yaffe $1,800.	cause_general
The agency said the other $10,000 was reclaimed by Central Fidelity in 1987, according to Sarasota’s Herald-Tribune, which originally reported the story.	distant_historical
That’s when Yaffe took the matter to court, and won a judgment last month for the $10,000 plus interest accrued from the time he tried to deposit the checks.	cause_specific
Wells Fargo has since filed an appeal, saying Florida law has a five-year statute of limitations on cashier’s checks.	cause_general
''We are abiding by the law,'' said Wells Fargo spokeswoman Kathy Harrison.	distant_evaluation
''The judge in this case elected to ignore the case law that supports it.	distant_evaluation
It’s an unfortunate situation, and now that it’s in litigation, there is not much more we can do or say.''	distant_evaluation
Today’s cashier’s checks typically carry disclaimers saying they will be voided if not cashed in a specified period of time, often 90 days or six months.	cause_general
Yaffe said there were no time limits written on his checks in 1982.	distant_evaluation
Even if the judgment is upheld in appeals, Yaffe says a portion of the $10,000 will go to attorney fees.	distant_expectations_consequences
A strict diet, designed for medical purposes, is just part of the deal.	distant_evaluation
And so a sick man might lose a large chunk of money, and a bank risks looking greedy and coldhearted.	distant_expectations_consequences
At this point Wells Fargo would be justified if it was worried about setting a legal precedent, but a little compassion a year ago could have avoided the whole mess.	distant_evaluation
That includes hiding the salt shaker and steering clear of alcohol.	distant_evaluation
Smoking is out of the question, and frequenting the gym whenever your body is agreeable would also qualify as part of the routine.	distant_evaluation
When you are waiting on a kidney transplant to prolong your life, you accept certain hassles along the way.	distant_evaluation
Ronald Yaffe expected all of that.	distant_evaluation
Here’s what he did not expect:	distant_evaluation
A yearlong battle with Wells Fargo concerning $10,000 in cashier’s checks from the 1980s that the bank says it is not obligated to pay.	main
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
Suh Ho, the chief South Korean negotiator, said Wednesday that North Korea must accept “common sense and international standards” in Kaesong before the complex can be “normalized and further developed.”	distant_expectations_consequences
South Korea is urging North Korea to take steps to assure that it will not let political and military disputes interfere again with the factory park’s operation.	distant_expectations_consequences
South Korean President Park Geun-hye has suggested that one step would be for North Korea to agree to invite non-Korean factories to Kaesong.	distant_expectations_consequences
The chief North Korean negotiator, Pak Chol-su, is pressing South Korea to agree to an early resumption of work at the complex, citing fears among factory owners that if their plants were not restarted soon, their equipment would start deteriorating in the monsoon season.	distant_expectations_consequences
The factory managers’ return and the continuing talks were a sign that tensions between the two Koreas were easing after months of hostile exchanges, which peaked when the North threatened to attack the South with nuclear weapons and the South responded with warnings of counterattacks.	distant_evaluation
The Kaesong complex, where textile and electronic parts companies from the South employed low-cost North Korean workers, started producing goods in late 2004.	distant_historical
It is the last remaining toehold for South Korea’s efforts from a previous era to use economic cooperation to help the North open up and move toward the reunification of the peninsula.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
SEOUL, South Korea - South Korean factory managers returned Wednesday to a shuttered industrial park in North Korea for the first time in two months, as the two governments resumed talks on reopening the complex, once a symbol of inter-Korean economic cooperation.	main
Sixty factory managers from the South arrived in the Kaesong Industrial Zone, in the North Korean border town of the same name, for a day trip to check on their factories, which have been idle since the last of the managers left in late April.	main
North Korea halted production there in early April by withdrawing its 53,000 workers, in part blaming tensions it said were caused by joint U.S.-South Korean military drills at the time.	cause_specific
The managers inspected their manufacturing equipment before the possible resumption of operations.	cause_general
More managers planned to visit Kaesong on Thursday.	distant_expectations_consequences
Representatives of the two Korean governments met on the border over the weekend and agreed upon the managers’ return, but they remained far apart over the terms of reopening the complex.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK - When Joseph C. Massino took the witness stand in 2011, becoming the first official boss of one of New York’s five crime families to break the code of silence and testify against a former confederate, he offered a succinct explanation for his departure from mob tradition.	cause_specific
McDonald said that Massino could support himself on rental income from his property and that he was also eligible for Social Security income.	distant_evaluation
Garaufis said that Massino, a rotund man of 70 whose health is failing, “may be the most important cooperator in the modern history of law enforcement efforts to prosecute the American Mafia.” He said that Massino’s assistance was essential in the investigations of the four leaders of the Bonanno family who followed him.	distant_evaluation
The judge also noted that Massino’s willingness to turn informer “has almost certainly caused numerous other members of organized crime to cooperate with the government.”	distant_expectations_consequences
Massino’s own crimes received only passing mention on Wednesday.	cause_general
He has been convicted of eight murders, including those of several rivals in the Bonanno family.	cause_specific
Massino, who wore a two-toned sweatsuit, said little during the hearing, leaving most of the speaking to his lawyer.	cause_general
But Massino did offer a brief statement of remorse, which he delivered standing in a single breath, and then quickly sat down.	cause_general
“I pray every night for forgiveness of everyone I hurt, especially the victims’ families,” he said.	distant_evaluation
A prosecutor, Taryn A. Merkl, said that the government had reached out to the families of Massino’s victims to inquire if any wanted to make a statement in court, but had not received any responses.	cause_general
Merkl said that nothing about the government’s decision to take Massino’s side “apologizes or condones the life he led, yet at the same time he decided to make a change.”	distant_evaluation
“I’m hoping to see a light at the end of the tunnel,” he said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Details of the life Massino will lead after his release were scarce.	distant_expectations_consequences
Garaufis directed Massino to continue to cooperate with the government, noting that prosecutors had informed him that Massino was helping with a number of investigations that were still pending.	distant_expectations_consequences
Garaufis said Massino’s age and ill health reduced “the court’s concern about possible recidivism.” Nonetheless, he ordered that Massino not associate “for the rest of your life” with known organized crime figures.	distant_expectations_consequences
McDonald would not comment on the nature of his client’s health ailments, except to say that Massino often said he “had everything except cancer.”	distant_evaluation
McDonald described his client as “a stoic guy,” but said Massino often told him that “if he had to make the decision again, if he was 18 or 19 years old, he wouldn’t go into the Mafia.”	distant_evaluation
On Wednesday, the tunnel got a whole lot shorter: A federal judge commuted Massino’s sentence of two consecutive life terms in prison.	main
Massino, the former boss of the Bonanno crime family, will be released from federal custody in 60 days, a period the government requested to put in place security arrangements to keep Massino safe from what are presumed to be a considerable number of enemies.	distant_expectations_consequences
Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn had sought a reduction of Massino’s sentence, citing his extensive cooperation: While incarcerated, Massino had recorded conversations with a Mafia captain, and he has provided investigators with information about hundreds of people associated with not only the Bonanno family, which Massino took control of in 1991, but also the other crime families across New York.	cause_specific
At a brief hearing in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn on Wednesday, Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis credited the government’s arguments and decided to undo the sentence of two life terms that he had originally meted out to Massino.	main
When that sentence was handed down, in 2005, clapping could be heard in his courtroom.	distant_historical
But on Wednesday, the judge said that in deciding to free Massino after more than 10 years of incarceration, he had considered the aging mobster’s “extraordinary cooperation with the government and his willingness to place himself at grave personal risk.”	distant_evaluation
Once released, Massino will probably receive a new identity and live elsewhere in the United States, his lawyer, Edward A. McDonald, said after the hearing.	distant_expectations_consequences
"EDS: SUBS 2 grafs starting “Sybrina Fulton” for 1 graf starting the same“; SUBS 2 grafs starting ”Calling it a""; SUBS headline.)"	error
Saturday night, when the verdict was read, Zimmerman, 29, smiled slightly.	cause_general
His wife, Shellie, and several of his friends wept, and his parents kissed and embraced.	cause_general
Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, who lost their son a few weeks after his 17th birthday, were not in the courtroom.	cause_general
In a statement released early Sunday, their attorney, Benjamin Crump, said the family was heartbroken and they thanked people around the world for their support.	distant_evaluation
“Trayvon Martin will forever remain in the annals of history next to Medgar Evers and Emmett Till,” he said, “as symbols for the fight for equal justice for all.”	distant_expectations_consequences
After the verdict, Judge Debra S. Nelson, of Seminole County Court, told Zimmerman, who has been in hiding and wears a bulletproof vest outside, that his bond was revoked and his GPS monitor would be cut off.	cause_general
“You have no further business with the court,” she said.	cause_general
Outside the courthouse, perhaps 100 protesters who had been gathering through the night, their numbers building as the hours passed, began pumping their fists in the air, waving placards and chanting “No justice, no peace!” Sheriff’s deputies lined up inside the courthouse, watching the crowd, who were chanting peacefully, but intently.	cause_general
By 11:20, more than an hour after the verdict had been read, the crowd had begun to dwindle.	cause_general
Among the last of the protesters to leave the courthouse lawn was Mattie Aikens, 33, of Sanford.	distant_anecdotal
; (This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
She had been standing outside since noon, and was still shocked.	distant_anecdotal
“He should have went to prison,” she said.	distant_anecdotal
“He should have just got guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty.”	distant_anecdotal
Mark O’Mara, one of Zimmerman’s lawyers, said, “George Zimmerman was never guilty of anything except firing the gun in self-defense.”	distant_evaluation
Calling it a “very trying time,” Crump, the Martin family attorney, said he had urged Martin’s parents to stay out of the courtroom for the verdict.	distant_evaluation
They were home and planning to attend church Sunday.	cause_general
The parents, he said, were grateful for all the support.	distant_evaluation
Crump asked the family’s supporters to keep the peace and read a Twitter post by Bernice King, the Rev.	cause_general
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s daughter.	cause_general
“Whatever the Zimmerman verdict is,” Crump read, “in the words of my father, we must conduct ourselves on the higher plane of dignity and discipline.”	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
SANFORD, Fla. - George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who fatally shot Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager, igniting a national debate on racial profiling and civil rights, was found not guilty late Saturday of second-degree murder.	main
He also was acquitted of manslaughter, a lesser charge.	main
After three weeks of testimony, the six-woman jury rejected the prosecution’s contention that Zimmerman had deliberately pursued Martin because he assumed the hoodie-clad teenager was a criminal and instigated the fight that led to his death.	cause_specific
Zimmerman said he shot Martin on Feb. 26, 2012, in self-defense after the teenager knocked him to the ground, punched him and slammed his head repeatedly against the sidewalk.	distant_historical
In finding him not guilty of murder or manslaughter, the jury agreed that Zimmerman could have been justified in shooting Martin because he feared great bodily harm or death.	cause_specific
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
“It is like a tinderbox, and all you had to do is light a match,” said Jules Lobel, the president of the Center for Constitutional Rights and the lead lawyer in a federal lawsuit over solitary confinement.	distant_evaluation
“They see the state has shown no willingness to change, even when the high court orders it.	distant_evaluation
They have decided to circle the wagons and keep the system that exists today as intact as possible.”	distant_evaluation
In many ways California prison system officials have been among the most reluctant to adapt systemic changes, experts say, doing so only when forced to by the federal courts.	distant_evaluation
Even then, lawyers and advocates for prisoners say, the changes have come slowly and unevenly.	distant_evaluation
Brown, a Democrat, has aggressively fought several federal court orders in the two years since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that conditions and overcrowding in the system amounted to a violation of the Eighth Amendment - cruel and unusual punishment.	cause_general
Since then, federal judges overseeing the case have repeatedly declared that the state was not making changes quickly enough, and that conditions in the prisons remained appalling - that the state had been “deliberately indifferent.”	cause_specific
The judges have twice threatened to hold the governor in contempt if he does not comply with their order to release prisoners.	cause_specific
Last week, Brown appealed to the Supreme Court to stop the order, arguing that the system had already improved dramatically and that stopping the release of prisoners was essential for public safety.	cause_specific
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
LOS ANGELES - Just six months after declaring that “the prison crisis is over in California,” Gov.	main
Jerry Brown is facing dire predictions about the future of the state’s prison system, one of the largest in the nation.	main
A widespread inmate hunger strike against California’s policy of solitary confinement was approaching its second week on Sunday.	cause_specific
The federal courts have demanded the release of nearly 10,000 inmates and the transfer of 2,600 others who are at risk of contracting a deadly disease in the state’s overcrowded prisons.	cause_specific
State lawmakers have called for an investigation into a new report that nearly 150 women behind bars were coerced into being sterilized over the last decade.	cause_specific
And last week, a federal judge ruled that prisoners were not receiving adequate medical care	cause_specific
OTTAWA - Loblaw Cos. Ltd., Canada’s largest grocer, said Monday that it would acquire Shoppers Drug Mart, the country’s biggest pharmacy chain, for $11.9 billion in cash and stock.	main
Shoppers Drug Mart shareholders would own 29 percent of the combined company.	cause_general
In a news conference, Galen G. Weston, executive chairman of Loblaw, said that while the two companies had spoken informally over the years, he proposed the transaction to Holger Kluge, the chairman of Shoppers, during a meeting “in a minivan on a country road on Thursday morning.” The unusual venue appears to be the result of Kluge’s attending an out-of-office meeting.	distant_evaluation
Weston said repeatedly that the transaction was part of a “vision that combined health, wellness and nutrition” for the company.	distant_evaluation
Loblaw, which has long been associated with high-margin, high-quality house brand merchandise, has been promoting a line of products it says are more healthful and posting extensive nutritional information in stores.	distant_evaluation
Loblaw said it planned to use its distribution network and grocery-buying power to improve the food sections at Shoppers stores, which have been greatly expanded in recent years.	distant_expectations_consequences
Those sections will eventually start carrying Loblaw’s “President’s Choice” house brand line of products as well as more fresh food.	distant_expectations_consequences
Domenic Pilla, president and chief executive of Shoppers, will manage the pharmacy as a separate unit that will continue to operate under its own brand names, which include Pharmaprix in Quebec.	cause_general
The combined company would have revenue of 42 billion Canadian dollars.	cause_general
Loblaw’s executives played down potential antitrust concerns, saying their company controls about 5 percent of the Canadian pharmacy business while Shoppers holds 25 percent.	distant_evaluation
But David Soberman, a professor of marketing at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, said there might be problems because the national figures did not reflect the outsized market share of both companies in Ontario, the county’s most populous province.	distant_expectations_consequences
Family-owned Loblaw is facing several challenges to its core business.	cause_specific
Last month, Sobeys, another family-owned grocery store chain, acquired the Canadian stores of Safeway for $5.8 billion in cash.	cause_general
Target is opening its first Canadian stores, many of which include extensive grocery sections.	cause_specific
And Wal-Mart Canada has been enlarging food departments at many of its stores.	cause_specific
Loblaw will exchange the equivalent of 33.18 Canadian dollars in cash and 0.5965 of a common share for each Shoppers Drug Mart share.	main
The grocery chain said the combined value was 61.54 Canadian dollars, or $59.05, a 29.4 percent premium to the average share price of the drug chain over the last 20 days.	cause_general
The deal is the largest transaction between two Canadian companies since 2009, when Suncor Energy bought Petro-Canada for $15 billion.	cause_general
Under the current plan, Shoppers Drug Mart shareholders can choose either 61.54 Canadian dollars in cash or 1.29417 Loblaw shares plus one Canadian cent for each of their shares.	cause_general
SEOUL, South Korea - State prosecutors armed with metal detectors raided the Seoul residence of former President Chun Doo-hwan on Tuesday to look for assets of the ex-military dictator who owes South Korea 167.5 billion won ($150 million) in fines but claims to be broke.	main
Television footage showed them hauling away paintings, porcelain and expensive artifacts.	cause_general
The investigators also searched the properties owned by his eldest son, Chun Jae-kook.	cause_general
The son’s publishing company, Sigongsa Inc., is one of the country’s largest and has published the Korean translations of books by John Grisham, C.?S.	cause_general
Lewis and Roald Dahl.	cause_general
Another son, Chun Jae-man, and his father-in-law run a California winery.	cause_general
There was no immediate comment from Chun Doo-hwan’s family about the raids Tuesday.	cause_general
Chun has been dogged by prosecutors for years.	cause_general
In 2000, they seized a Mercedes-Benz sedan from him.	distant_historical
In 2003, they confiscated a refrigerator, television set and golf clubs and auctioned them off.	distant_historical
At the time, Chun claimed to have less than $260 in his bank accounts, although opposition lawmakers alleged that he may have had huge assets stashed away.	distant_historical
In a Supreme Court ruling in 1997, Chun, now 82, was ordered to return to the state 220 billion won he illegally accumulated through bribery from big businesses during his eight and a half years in power in the 1980s.	distant_historical
Suspicion resurfaced after Newstapa, a website run by the Korea Center of Investigative Journalism, recently reported that Chun Jae-kook set up a shell company in the British Virgin Islands in 2004.	cause_specific
The son has since said that the account had nothing to do with his father.	distant_evaluation
Last month, the National Assembly passed a bill extending the statute of limitations on confiscating assets from public officials who have failed to pay fines.	cause_specific
Under the old law, prosecutors had only until October.	cause_specific
The new law extended the statute of limitations on Chun Doo-hwan’s case until 2020 and allowed prosecutors to collect from his family members as well if they could prove that any of their properties originated from Chun’s illegal funds.	cause_specific
The military coup in 1979 propelled Chun, an army major general at the time, into the power vacuum created by the assassination of President Park Chung-hee, the father of the current president, Park Geun-hye.	cause_specific
During her presidential campaign, Park admitted that she had received 600 million won from Chun after the coup.	cause_general
She said she would repay the money to the state.	distant_expectations_consequences
Former President Roh Tae-woo, a fellow army general and friend of Chun who replaced him as president, was also ordered to pay back 260 billion won.	distant_historical
Roh has more than 90 percent of the sum.	cause_general
He has so far paid only a quarter of the amount.	cause_general
In his last payment, he handed in 3 million won he said he collected as a lecture fee.	distant_historical
Chun has rarely appeared in public since he stepped down in 1988 and entered a Buddhist monastery.	cause_general
In the 1997 verdict, he was also convicted of sedition for his role in the 1979 military coup that brought him to power and a 1980 military crackdown that left hundreds of people dead in the southwestern city of Kwangju.	distant_historical
He initially was sentenced to death, a penalty that was reduced to a life imprisonment.	distant_historical
He was later pardoned and freed.	distant_historical
On Tuesday, a team of 90 prosecutors, tax collectors and other investigators ransacked Chun’s home in eastern Seoul.	main
EDS: SUBS throughout; NEW headline; SUBS byline.)	error
Two decades after the acquittal of white Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney King sparked deadly riots in the same part of the city, residents and public officials agreed that the more muted anger over the Zimmerman verdict in Florida - and the much smaller outbreak of violence - showed how much, and how little, has changed.	distant_evaluation
“Twenty-one years ago we witnessed what could happen when there’s a reaction to a verdict,” Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles County supervisor who represents South Los Angeles, said at a news conference on Monday night.	distant_evaluation
“Similar sentiments are being expressed here in this space, but the response of the LAPD is qualitatively different.”	distant_evaluation
Many in the neighborhood, while remaining wary of law enforcement officials, agreed that relations between black residents and the Police Department had vastly improved.	distant_evaluation
The police allowed the demonstration to continue until the violence began.	cause_specific
“The police did a top-notch job,” said Trebien Bellows, 46, a lifelong neighborhood resident.	distant_anecdotal
“I have to give it up for the new police chief.	distant_anecdotal
Before things got crazy, they jumped right on it.” Charlie Beck was appointed police chief in 2009.	distant_anecdotal
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., in a speech Tuesday at the NAACP convention in Orlando, Fla., condemned Florida’s Stand Your Ground law.	distant_evaluation
“It’s time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods,” he said.	distant_evaluation
; (This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
“These laws try to fix something that was never broken.”	distant_evaluation
The unrest in Los Angeles followed consecutive nights of largely peaceful protests in cities like Atlanta, Chicago, New York and Washington.	cause_general
In Oakland, Calif., demonstrators blocked traffic along Interstate 880 for a brief period during the afternoon rush Monday before authorities were able to clear the road.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
LOS ANGELES - The police here were preparing for another night of protests on Tuesday, and community activists were working to maintain the peace after anger over the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin turned violent in South Los Angeles on Monday night.	cause_general
A group of about 150 mostly young people broke away from a peaceful demonstration in the Crenshaw district, long home to many of the city’s black residents.	main
Protesters ran through the streets, blocking traffic, hitting cars, assaulting pedestrians and ransacking businesses, the police reported.	main
Hundreds of police officers in riot gear descended on the area to quell the unrest.	main_consequence
Fourteen people were arrested, the police said, half of them juveniles.	main_consequence
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
In his decision, Judge Sergei Blinov called his testimony trustworthy and reliable.	distant_evaluation
But during the trial, Opalev at times gave contradictory evidence, and defense lawyers were not allowed to cross-examine him.	cause_specific
In addition, Blinov barred the defense from calling 13 witnesses.	cause_specific
The verdict quickly reverberated throughout the highest levels of Russian government and society and even sparked some calls for boycotts of the Moscow mayoral election and future national ballots.	distant_evaluation
Alexei L. Kudrin, a close associate of Putin and former finance minister, described it on Twitter as “looking less like a punishment than an attempt to isolate him from social life and the electoral process.”	distant_evaluation
The crime novelist Boris Akunin, who is also a political opposition leader, said the verdict showed there was little hope to change Russia by democratic means.	distant_evaluation
“Lifetime deprivation of elections - this is what the verdict means not only for Navalny but for all who thought it was possible to change this system through elections,” Akunin wrote.	distant_evaluation
As the five-year sentence was delivered, and the judge said that it could not be suspended but required actual jail time, some of Navalny’s supporters burst into tears.	cause_general
He was led away in handcuffs.	cause_general
In Moscow, even before the sentence was announced, supporters and the police began to gather at Manezh Square near the Kremlin where backers of Alexei Navalny had planned to hold an unsanctioned rally.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
More than 7,000 people had responded to an announcement of the event on Facebook to say that they would attend.	cause_general
);	error
KIROV, Russia - Alexei A. Navalny, a lawyer who became Russia’s most resonant opposition voice by crusading against rampant public corruption, was found guilty Thursday of stealing money from a state-controlled timber company.	main
He was sentenced to five years in prison - a punishment that immediately transformed Navalny, 37, who recently declared his candidacy for mayor of Moscow, from an opposition activist to a political dissident and prisoner.	main
Navalny - who became an irritant to President Vladimir Putin by branding his United Russia political machine as the “party of swindlers and thieves,” - was the first to use the Internet and social media as his main weapon against the state.	cause_general
Navalny’s co-defendant, Pyotr Ofitserov, a businessman and acquaintance who worked with him on the timber project, was sentenced to four years in prison.	cause_general
The two men, who had been accused of embezzling nearly $500,000, were also each fined more than $15,000.	cause_general
Much of the judge’s findings was based on the testimony of a third man accused in the scheme, Vyacheslav Opalev, who pleaded guilty and worked with the prosecution.	cause_specific
The city of Detroit, which has filed for bankruptcy, has formally hired the international auction house Christie’s to appraise part of the city-owned art collection held by the Detroit Institute of Arts, the auction house said Monday.	main
A decision about whether to sell the art to satisfy creditors has not been made, city officials have said, although all the city’s assets are being evaluated in light of the situation in Detroit, the largest U.S. city ever to file for bankruptcy.	distant_evaluation
Christie’s representatives had previously visited the museum in early June and confirmed Monday that the company had been hired to appraise the collection but gave no details about which portion of the collection it would be looking at.	cause_specific
“Christie’s was asked to assist due to our expertise in this area across all fine art categories and eras,” it said in its statement.	distant_evaluation
It said, “In addition we will also assist and advise on how to realize value for the City while leaving the art in the City’s ownership.”	distant_expectations_consequences
The office of Detroit emergency manager Kevyn Orr will pay Christie’s $200,000 for the appraisal, which is expected to be completed by mid-October, the Detroit Free Press reported on its website.	main_consequence
Christie’s will appraise only artworks that are clearly owned by the city and that are not bound by donor restrictions that might rule out a possible sale, the newspaper said, citing Orr’s spokesman Bill Nowling.	distant_evaluation
ROME - A visibly shaken Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister, said Sunday that his center-right party would continue to support Italy’s fragile coalition government, releasing some of the political tension that has built in the country since a court upheld his conviction for tax fraud last week.	main
“This party carries 10 million votes,” Raffaele Fitto, a former government minister from Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, told the television network La7 from the rally.	distant_evaluation
“It cannot be canceled with a pen stroke.”	distant_evaluation
Last week, Italy’s highest court upheld a four-year prison sentence for Berlusconi, which had been effectively reduced to one year, for tax fraud.	cause_specific
He was found guilty of a plot in which his Mediaset broadcasting company bought the rights to show U.S. movies on their networks and inflated the prices, using offshore companies to evade taxes.	cause_specific
After the ruling, lawmakers from the People of Liberty party offered to resign and have been demanding that President Giorgio Napolitano pardon Berlusconi, but experts say that is highly unlikely.	distant_evaluation
By Oct. 15, Berlusconi must decide whether he prefers to serve his time in jail, under house arrest or do community service.	cause_general
“We have said clearly and directly that the government must forge ahead and approve the economic measures that we have requested and were agreed,” Berlusconi said in his first public appearance since the conviction, speaking at a rally his party had organized in front of his residence here.	distant_evaluation
Italy’s prime minister, Enrico Letta, watched the rally on television and took note of Berlusconi’s intentions.	distant_anecdotal
But he made clear that he expected concrete action, like support for a package of economic measures that are scheduled to be voted on in Parliament next week, a member of Letta’s staff said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“I can promise you,” Berlusconi told his supporters, almost in tears.	distant_evaluation
“Here I am.	distant_evaluation
I am staying here.	distant_evaluation
I won’t surrender.”	distant_expectations_consequences
An estimated 2,000 people attended the rally to express anger and bewilderment at the ruling.	cause_general
SAN FRANCISCO - T-Mobile US, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier, lost thousands of customers over the past few years to rivals that offered cooler phones.	distant_historical
The company also has extra muscle from its merger with the smaller carrier MetroPCS, which was completed in May.	cause_specific
The change is costing T-Mobile.	cause_general
The company posted a loss of $16 million for the quarter, compared with a profit of $207 million last year in the same period.	cause_general
But it also reported revenue of $6.23 billion, up from $4.9 billion last year.	cause_general
The net income was above the expectations of Wall Street analysts.	cause_general
They had expected revenue of $6.01 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.	cause_general
In March, T-Mobile discontinued two-year contracts, instead allowing customers to buy a smartphone for a lower upfront cost and adding the cost of the device to their monthly bill.	distant_historical
It also continued to offer plans with unlimited data, an option that the top two carriers, Verizon Wireless and AT&T, killed years ago.	cause_general
In general, T-Mobile’s plans are also cheaper than its competitors’ - for $70 a month, a customer can have unlimited minutes, text messages and data.	cause_general
The plans offered by AT&T and Verizon cost upward of roughly $100 a month.	cause_general
But it appears to be getting its groove back.	distant_evaluation
T-Mobile expects the growth to continue.	distant_expectations_consequences
For the full year, it said it expected to add between 1 million and 1.2 million contract subscribers.	distant_expectations_consequences
The company Thursday said it had gained 1.1 million customers, including 685,000 contract subscribers, over its second quarter.	main
That compares with losing 557,000 contract subscribers, the most valuable type of customer, in the same period a year ago.	distant_historical
The uptick represents its largest customer growth in four years.	main
The company, based in Bellevue, Wash., only started offering the iPhone in April, when it also began offering new phone plans that address common frustrations with wireless companies, like confusing contracts and expensive data plans.	distant_historical
“By fixing the things that drive them mad, like contracts and upgrades, and freeing them from the two-year sentences imposed on them by our competitors, they are choosing the new T-Mobile in unprecedented numbers,” John Legere, the chief executive of T-Mobile US, said in a news release.	distant_evaluation
Over the past several years, T-Mobile lost many customers largely because it lacked the iPhone, and customers were unhappy with its service.	distant_evaluation
But this year has been jam-packed with change for the company: It finally landed a deal with Apple to sell the iPhone, it began an overhaul of its network and it started offering lower-cost plans to lure customers from competitors.	cause_specific
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
But Friday, while Rancadore, 64, was still in a police holding cell, a new warrant was issued.	cause_specific
At the court hearing later, Purdy denied his bail request, meaning that Rancadore will remain in custody while he awaits extradition proceedings.	main
According to court filings in London, Rancadore was sentenced in 1999 to seven years in prison after being tried in absentia and convicted of extortion, membership in the Mafia and other serious crimes.	distant_historical
The Italian authorities placed him on a list of “dangerous fugitives,” the Italian Interior Ministry said, because he had been a “man of honor” in Cosa Nostra.	distant_historical
As a top Mafia member, the Italian authorities said, Rancadore went by the sobriquet U Profissuri, the professor, from a Mafia clan in Trabia near Palermo, the Sicilian capital.	distant_historical
Italian investigators believe that Rancadore fled Italy in the early 1990s because of an internal conflict, when the “boss of all bosses,” Salvatore Riina, ordered the killing of two top anti-Mafia prosecutors.	distant_historical
The Italian police issued an international arrest warrant in 1998.	distant_historical
For almost two decades, Rancadore lived in England under the assumed name of Marc Skinner, using the maiden name of his wife, Anne, and leading an innocuous life in London’s outer fringes, far from the perennial battle in Sicily between the authorities and the mob.	cause_general
Joan Hills, 76, who lives nearby, told The Independent that Rancadore was “one of the best neighbors you could ever have.”	distant_anecdotal
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
LONDON - To the Italian police, he was Domenico Rancadore, or “the professor,” a Mafia boss on the lam as a dangerous fugitive for almost two decades, a onetime enforcer for the Sicilian Cosa Nostra.	distant_evaluation
To those who lived near him on a leafy street in a bland West London suburb, he was Marc Skinner, a father of two, a former teacher and a good neighbor who spent contented hours buffing the paint jobs on his fancy cars.	distant_evaluation
But this week, his double life began unraveling.	cause_general
A British judge denied him bail Friday, two days after his arrest on an international warrant seeking his extradition to Italy to serve a seven-year sentence for extortion and other crimes.	main
Right until the brief court hearing Friday, there had been speculation that he would be freed because of technical flaws in the warrant.	distant_evaluation
At a separate hearing the day before, Judge Quentin Purdy of Westminster Magistrates’ Court said, “There are concerns about the validity of the warrant that has come before the court.”	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
The prime minister’s office offered no immediate comment.	cause_general
The settlement move appeared intended to appease the right-wing members of the Israeli government ahead of the expected release this week of 26 Palestinian prisoners who have served 20 years or more in prison for deadly attacks against Israelis.	distant_evaluation
Later on Sunday, a ministerial committee was expected to complete the list of those to be released on Tuesday.	cause_general
The decision to release 104 prisoners over the coming months is deeply unpopular in Israel.	distant_evaluation
Netanyahu has explained it as a gesture that was necessary to persuade the Palestinian leadership to agree to resume long-stalled negotiations and that was preferable to acceding to other Palestinian demands like a settlement freeze.	distant_evaluation
But it appears that the talks Wednesday will be taking place amid a storm of mutual recrimination.	distant_expectations_consequences
Muhammad Shtayyeh, a senior Palestinian negotiator, issued a statement Sunday saying, “It is clear that the Israeli government is deliberately attempting to sabotage U.S. and international efforts to resume negotiations.” Israel, he continued, “continues to use peace negotiations as a smoke screen for more settlement construction.”	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
JERUSALEM - Israel published bids Sunday for the construction of more than 1,000 housing units in contested areas of East Jerusalem and several large West Bank settlements, intensifying the already charged atmosphere three days before the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks here and hours before Israel was to announce the names of Palestinian prisoners to be released this week.	main
While the planning and building of settlements have continued in the months preceding the talks, causing constant friction, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s new governing coalition had so far refrained from issuing construction bids since it was formed in March.	distant_evaluation
The publishing of bids is the final bureaucratic stage before new construction can begin.	cause_general
Uri Ariel, the housing minister, announced the contentious move while Netanyahu was recovering in a hospital after overnight surgery for a hernia.	cause_general
“The government of Israel is working to bring down the cost of living in all parts of the country,” Ariel, a member of the pro-settlement Jewish Home Party, said in a statement.	distant_evaluation
“No country in the world accepts dictates from other countries about where it is allowed to build and where not,” he continued, responding to the international condemnation of Israel’s continuing efforts to build up the settlements.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
The story, zealously covered by much of the Chinese news media on Tuesday, seemed to embody the popular perception that the rich and powerful can simply do as they please.	distant_evaluation
According to news reports, Zhang amassed a fortune through a chain of traditional Chinese medicine clinics he owned, or through private acupuncture sessions.	cause_general
Until recently, he was a local delegate to the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body to the ruling Communist Party.	cause_general
Code enforcement officials said they were stymied by Zhang’s refusal to let them into his apartment.	cause_specific
The deputy head of the Purple Bamboo Park urban management district said he even dispatched inspectors to the building’s underground parking garage but Zhang managed to evade them.	cause_specific
“If we can’t calculate the scope of this illegal construction, we can’t issue a notice requiring him to dismantle it,” the official told the paper.	distant_evaluation
By Tuesday, however, Zhang appeared to run out of luck.	distant_evaluation
Officials slapped a notice on his front door, giving him 15 days to remove the addition or present evidence that it had been legally constructed.	main
He claimed the structure was safe in a brief interview Tuesday evening, but conceded that it might have been a folly after all.	distant_evaluation
“Now I realize it was a huge mistake,” he said, adding that he would dismantle the addition within a week.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
BEIJING - In a city brimming with look-at-me architecture, the sprawling addition that Zhang Biqing, a health care magnate, built atop his 26th-floor apartment is a showstopper.	distant_evaluation
Constructed with ersatz boulders, crisscrossed by trellises and walkways and dotted with the occasional shrub, the two-story aerie resembles the idealized mountains depicted in classical Chinese paintings - except the requisite lonely monk of yore has been replaced by a flashy karaoke parlor.	distant_evaluation
The entire 8,000-square-foot addition, as it turns out, is illegal.	cause_specific
On Monday, The Beijing Morning News featured a front-page photograph of Zhang’s garish rooftop expansion, along with disturbing accounts of how the well-connected entrepreneur blithely ignored his neighbors’ complaints during the six years he spent creating his craggy villa atop a luxury gated complex in western Beijing.	cause_general
Tenants were so tortured by the din of nonstop construction - and the resulting leaks and cracked walls - that several of them sold their apartments and moved out.	distant_anecdotal
One next-door neighbor was reportedly beaten up after he confronted Zhang about the project, which is said to have cost more than $4 million.	distant_anecdotal
SEOUL, South Korea - An American tour operator imprisoned in North Korea on charges of plotting to harm the Socialist country through Christian missionary activities has appealed to Washington to send a high-ranking official to North Korea to help free him, according to a videotaped interview made public Tuesday.	main
North Korea had previously said Bae would not be used as a bargaining chip.	distant_evaluation
But outside analysts said the recent news of his deteriorating health and the letters he was allowed to send to his family in recent weeks, along with another videotaped interview broadcast by The Choson Sinbo and CNN last month, were probably efforts by the North Korean government to force Washington to engage in dialogue.	distant_evaluation
In the past, the North has used Americans held on criminal charges to bring about visits by prominent U.S. figures seeking their release, like former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton - a practice that Washington has wanted to end.	distant_evaluation
A visit by a high-ranking U.S. government representative would be a significant diplomatic coup for the North Korean government, which has long wanted an official dialogue with the United States.	distant_evaluation
Washington has insisted that there will be no such engagement until the North has shown concrete signs of giving up its nuclear weapons development.	cause_general
In the video, Bae was also shown being visited by a Swedish diplomat.	cause_general
Washington has no official diplomatic ties with North Korea, and the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang represents U.S. interests in Bae’s case on Washington’s behalf.	cause_general
Bae appeared gaunt in the video and said his various ailments, including a backache, had worsened during his time in the labor camp.	distant_evaluation
The State Department has called on the North to grant Bae amnesty and immediate release.	main_consequence
The Choson Sinbo, a pro-North Korean newspaper based in Japan, on Tuesday posted the video footage of tour operator, Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American from Washington state, sitting in a hospital in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, where he was moved from a labor camp a week ago as his health deteriorated.	cause_specific
Bae, 45, had been imprisoned at the camp since May, shortly after he was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for what North Korean authorities said were hostile acts against the government.	cause_specific
Bae was leading a group of visitors from China into the special economic zone of Rason in northeastern North Korea when he was arrested in November.	distant_historical
North Korean officials accused Bae of being a Christian missionary who flouted the country’s laws on proselytizing.	cause_specific
In his interview with The Choson Sinbo, Bae said he had “violated” North Korean laws.	distant_evaluation
“As an American citizen, I request the U.S. government to make active efforts so I can be pardoned and return home,” he said in the interview, which The Choson Sinbo said took place Friday.	distant_evaluation
“I think that a high-ranking U.S. official should come here and bring me home, and that such an official should come here as a representative of the U.S. government and apologize and make a request of an early pardon for my release.”	distant_evaluation
It was unclear whether Bae was speaking of his own free will.	distant_evaluation
Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London.	error
They included the Nazi war criminal Klaus Barbie; the terrorist Ilich Ramírez Sánchez, aka Carlos the Jackal; and Cambodia’s Khmer Rouge head of state, Khieu Samphan.	cause_general
Vergès also sought to defend former presidents Saddam Hussein of Iraq, who was executed for crimes against humanity, and Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, who represented himself in a war-crimes trial but died before a verdict.	cause_general
Like many of his clients, Vergès, the son of a Vietnamese woman and a French diplomat, was an enigma.	distant_evaluation
Assassins targeted him.	cause_general
There were hints of ties to secret services, to terrorists he defended and to Mao Zedong, Che Guevara and other revolutionaries.	cause_general
He was a confidant of Pol Pot, the tyrant blamed for the deaths of at least 1.7 million Cambodians.	cause_general
He married a terrorist he saved from the guillotine, but left her and his two children and disappeared for eight years.	distant_historical
“He’s a slippery man,” director Barbet Schroeder, who made “Terror’s Advocate,” a 2007 documentary on Vergès and terrorism as a political weapon, told The New York Times in 2007.	distant_historical
“You can never touch him.	distant_historical
He loves the mystery.	distant_historical
Jacques Vergès, the French lawyer who embraced anti-colonial causes and the role of devil’s advocate on a world stage to defend war criminals, terrorists, dictators and other notorious villains of the 20th century, died Thursday in Paris.	main
The reason is that there are certain things he cannot talk about.	distant_historical
He would be in deep trouble if the truth came out.”	distant_historical
In a career that paralleled the postwar disintegration of colonial empires in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Vergès rose to prominence in the late 1950s defending Algerians accused of terrorist bombings.	distant_historical
Instead of contesting the evidence of French prosecutors in court, he insisted that the defendants were resistance fighters in a just war of liberation and challenged the legal and moral legitimacy of the trials.	distant_historical
While most of his clients were convicted, the trials drew international attention to Vergès, and long after Algerian independence in 1962 his tactics served as a blueprint for his cases, which became public platforms to indict France and other Western nations for what he called crimes of racist colonialism and the exploitation of Third World peoples.	distant_historical
In the late 1960s, Vergès broadened his horizons, defending Palestinians charged with attacks on El Al aircraft in Athens and Zurich.	distant_historical
He later represented members of the Red Army Faction in Germany, whose bombings he called the work of “soldiers in a noble cause.”	distant_historical
Vergès’ most famous case was his defense of Klaus Barbie, the wartime Gestapo leader known as “the Butcher of Lyons” for his role in the torture, execution and deportation to death camps of thousands of French citizens.	distant_evaluation
After years in hiding, during which he is believed to have assisted Western intelligence services, Barbie was extradited from Bolivia to France in 1983.	distant_historical
At his war-crimes trial in 1987, Barbie walked out, refusing to hear testimony of his horrors.	distant_historical
He was 88.	cause_general
Vergès virtually ignored the charges, and attacked Israel, France and other nations for committing “crimes against humanity” that he called “more serious” than those ascribed to Barbie.	distant_historical
Critics said he trivialized genocide to defend a monster.	distant_evaluation
Barbie was convicted and sentenced to life in prison, where he died in 1991.	distant_historical
“I practice the 'defense de la rupture,'” Vergès told The New York Times during his work on the Barbie case, meaning a tactic of confrontation with the judicial system rather than one that works within it.	distant_historical
“My law is to be against all laws.	distant_historical
My morality is to be against all morality.”	distant_historical
Jacques Vergès and his twin brother, Paul, were born March 5, 1925, in Ubon Ratchathani, Siam, now Thailand.	distant_historical
Their Vietnamese mother died when they were 3 and their father, Raymond Vergès, a French diplomat, raised them on the Indian Ocean island of Réunion.	distant_historical
Paul became a founder of the Réunion Communist Party and a member of the European Parliament.	distant_historical
In 1942, with his father’s encouragement, Jacques sailed to England, joined Charles de Gaulle’s Free French Forces and fought in the Resistance.	distant_historical
The cause was a heart attack at around 8 p.m. as he was preparing to dine with friends, according to his publisher, Éditions Pierre-Guillaume de Roux.	cause_specific
After the war, he studied law at the University of Paris, joined the Communist Party and in 1949 became a leader of an anti-colonial student movement.	distant_historical
His student friends included Khieu Samphan and Saloth Sar, the future Pol Pot.	distant_historical
In the early 1950s Vergès led a Communist youth organization in Prague.	distant_historical
Returning to Paris, he became a lawyer in 1955 and gained fame defending Algerian guerrilla fighters.	distant_historical
In a notorious case, Djamila Bouhired was convicted in 1957 of killing 11 people in an Algiers bombing and sentenced to death.	distant_historical
As she awaited the guillotine, it was revealed that she had been tortured during questioning.	distant_historical
Vergès campaigned for a reprieve.	distant_historical
Many world leaders, including the Soviet leader, Nikita Khrushchev, demanded her release.	distant_historical
Her execution was postponed, and in 1962 she was released.	distant_historical
In 1965, Vergès and Bouhired were married.	distant_historical
He died in the Parisian house where the Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire once lived, the publisher said in a statement.	main
They had two children, Meriem and Liess.	distant_historical
The couple founded a popular magazine, Révolution, in 1968.	distant_historical
In 1970, Vergès disappeared.	distant_historical
His whereabouts remained a mystery, although he was rumored to be in Cambodia with Pol Pot and in the Middle East with Palestinian groups.	distant_historical
He reappeared in Paris in 1978 and resumed his law practice.	distant_historical
His ties to Carlos the Jackal were murky but probably dated to 1982, when he defended Magdalena Kopp, the terrorist’s girlfriend and accomplice (and later his wife), who was caught with explosives in Paris.	distant_historical
Wanted for many terrorist acts in the name of Palestinian liberation in the 1970s and '80s, Carlos was captured by French agents in Sudan in 1994 and flown to Paris.	distant_historical
Vergès called it a kidnapping and represented Carlos in the early stages of his case, but they had a falling out over tactics.	distant_historical
The Venezuelan-born terrorist hired other lawyers, was convicted in 1997 and sentenced to life in prison.	distant_historical
The verdict and sentence were affirmed in another trial years later.	distant_historical
“The ideal place for the last theatrical act that was the death of this born actor who, like Voltaire, cultivated the art of permanent revolt and volte-face,” the statement said, reflecting the lawyer’s reputation for asking disturbing questions on behalf of notorious clients.	distant_evaluation
After Saddam Hussein was captured in 2003, Vergès, who had been hired to defend other ousted Iraqi leaders, offered to represent him.	distant_historical
The family of the deposed Iraqi leader chose another lawyer, and Saddam was executed in 2006.	distant_historical
Vergès also offered to defend Milosevic, but he chose to represent himself in a trial that began in The Hague in 2002.	distant_historical
Milosevic died in 2006 before the case could be concluded.	distant_historical
In 2008, as Khieu Samphan made his first appearance before Cambodia’s genocide tribunal, Vergès, representing his old friend, created a tumultuous scene and stormed out after erupting at a panel of judges because documents for the pretrial hearing had not been translated into French.	distant_historical
He argued that his client had held no real power as Cambodians had died of starvation, disease, forced labor and massacres during the brutal Khmer Rouge drive to create a classless society.	distant_historical
He insisted that the power - and responsibility for the Cambodian tragedy - belonged to Pol Pot, who died in 1998.	distant_historical
Is a killer a terrorist or a patriot?	distant_evaluation
Can laws be used to judge good and evil?	distant_evaluation
For more than 50 years, Vergès raised such questions in defense of clients who claimed to be acting for political causes, although they were charged with genocide, crimes against humanity, bombings, hijackings and the murder of innocents.	cause_general
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
On Monday, Mubarak’s lawyer, Farid el-Deeb, said a court had ordered his release and he might be freed this week.	distant_expectations_consequences
But there was no official confirmation from the military-backed interim government that Mubarak would be released.	cause_general
News reports said that the ambush Monday occurred in a village near the town of Rafah and that three police officers had been wounded.	cause_general
The attackers were initially depicted as Islamist militants firing rocket-propelled grenades at the police minibuses.	cause_general
But there was some confusion, with later reports quoting officials who put the death toll at 25.	cause_general
There was no official confirmation of the events.	cause_general
Ambassadors from the 28-member European Union planned to meet Monday to review the bloc’s relationship with Egypt, confronting a question of whether stability and security outweigh considerations relating to human rights and democracy.	cause_general
In a radio interview Monday, William Hague, the British foreign secretary, said he did not accept that outsiders were powerless to influence events.	distant_evaluation
“But we have to do our best to promote democratic institutions, to promote political dialogue and to keep faith with the majority of Egyptians who just want a free and stable and prosperous country,” he told the BBC.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
CAIRO - The judicial authorities in Egypt have ordered the release of former President Hosni Mubarak, who has been detained on a variety of charges since his ouster in 2011, according to state media and security officials Monday.	main
It remained possible, however, that the authorities would find other ways to keep him in detention.	distant_evaluation
The development threatened to inject a volatile new element into the standoff between the country’s military and Islamist supporters of the deposed President Mohammed Morsi as Egypt entered the sixth day of a state of emergency following a bloody crackdown by the military in which hundreds of people have been killed.	distant_expectations_consequences
It was unclear how Egyptians would respond to the release of a despised autocrat whose downfall united Mubarak’s secular and Islamist foes.	distant_evaluation
Just in the past 24 hours, the Egyptian government has acknowledged that its security forces had killed 36 Islamists in its custody, while suspected militants were reported Monday to have killed at least 24 police officers in an attack on their minibuses in the restive northern Sinai region.	cause_general
Mubarak, 85, faces an array of legal challenges including allegations of corruption and a retrial on charges of complicity in the murder of protesters whose revolt forced his ouster in February, 2011.	cause_specific
Rosalia Mera, a Spanish entrepreneur who had dropped out of school at 11 to work as a seamstress and went on to help start a global fashion empire, Zara, becoming the world’s richest self-made woman, died Aug. 15 in La Coruña, Spain.	main
Zara could come up with its own variations on those designs and have them in stores within two weeks; previously, six months was the industry average.	cause_general
It accomplished this through what is known as vertical integration.	distant_evaluation
Zara designs, produces, distributes and sells its own lines in its own retail stores - 1,763 in 86 countries, including the United States.	cause_general
It uses no subcontractors or intermediaries and relies little on advertising.	cause_general
Devotees of the Zara label include the Duchess of Cambridge, the former Kate Middleton.	cause_general
Zara takes an extra step in getting daily feedback from its many stores.	distant_evaluation
The company can incorporate customer desires by modifying a design and shipping the new product out within days.	cause_general
The company says it takes care not to violate copyright laws in following designer trends.	distant_evaluation
In 1985, Zara and its “fast fashion” model came under the corporate umbrella of Industria de Diseno Textil, or Inditex S.A., a conglomerate whose eight brand names, each with its own chain of stores, aim at specific markets.	distant_historical
Massimo Dutti, for example, targets urban cosmopolites, while Bershka is youth-oriented.	cause_general
She was 69.	cause_general
In 2001, when Inditex shares were first sold to the public, Daniel Piette, fashion director for Louis Vuitton SA, called it “possibly the most innovative and devastating retailer in the world.”	distant_historical
Rosalía Mera Goyenechea was born on Jan. 28, 1944, in a working-class neighborhood of La Coruña, a port city in Galicia, a center of Spain’s textile industry.	distant_historical
Her father worked for a utility company and her mother for a butcher shop.	distant_historical
Mera skipped secondary school and in 1963 met Ortega, the son of a railroad worker and a maid who had left school at 13 to work as a delivery boy for a shirt maker.	distant_historical
When they met, he was working at one clothing shop in La Coruña and she at another.	distant_historical
They married in 1966.	distant_historical
In their living room, they began making quilted bathrobes and lingerie that Mera had designed.	distant_historical
The London newspaper The Independent said in its obituary of Mera that her lingerie designs were “a bit shocking at the time” but immediately popular.	distant_evaluation
The newspaper suggested that this new liberalism in undergarments reflected a slight breeze of change in the final years of the dictatorship of Francisco Franco.	distant_evaluation
The couple soon expanded the business, setting up manufacturing operations, employing hundreds and later opening their own store.	distant_historical
Her death was announced by Inditex, the holding company that owns Zara and seven other apparel concerns.	cause_general
At first they wanted to call the store Zorba after watching the 1964 film “Zorba the Greek.” But after discovering that there was a bar named Zorba two blocks away, and since they had already made the molds for the letters spelling Zorba for a storefront sign, they simply rearranged them to see what they could find.	distant_historical
They settled on Zara.	distant_historical
The business eventually expanded to other Spanish cities, then to Portugal, then around the world.	distant_historical
The couple separated in 1986 and divorced in the 1990s.	distant_historical
Mera stopped working at Zara after the separation but remained on the board until 2004.	distant_historical
She devoted more time to charity work, much of it through a foundation that she and her husband had set up to help disabled people.	cause_general
Mera made $600 million from Inditex’s public stock offering in 2001 and diversified her investments, buying stakes in a fish-farming group, a company that looks for cancer treatments in ocean products, and the maker of a fingerprinting system for newborns.	distant_historical
She was a major investor in the Bulgari Hotel in London.	distant_historical
For years Mera could be seen in La Coruña at the movies or pubs.	distant_historical
She was also politically active, speaking out against tightening Spain’s abortion laws and cutbacks to health care and education programs.	cause_general
Spanish newspapers said she had a stroke on the Mediterranean island of Minorca on Aug. 14 and was flown to a hospital in La Coruña, in northwestern Spain, where she lived.	cause_specific
She visited the camps of protesters against capitalism’s excesses, a precursor to the Occupy Wall Street movement in the United States.	distant_historical
Survivors include a son, Marcos Ortega, and a daughter, Sandra Ortega.	cause_general
Forbes magazine ranked Mera as the richest woman in Spain this year and the 66th richest woman in the world.	cause_general
She ranked first among women who had acquired their wealth through their own efforts, rather than inheritance or marriage.	cause_general
Her former husband, Amancio Ortega, with whom she started the company as an equal partner in 1974, is listed by Forbes as the world’s third richest man, with assets of $57 billion.	cause_general
Mera’s wealth came from owning approximately 7 percent of Inditex stock, worth $6.1 billion.	cause_general
Zara changed the apparel industry, chiefly by speeding up its mass-market response to new designs coming from the leading fashion houses in Paris, Milan, New York and other cities.	distant_evaluation
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
Several residents supporting a recall effort urged council members to reject any deal that would give Filner money for his legal fees and damages.	cause_general
But others sought compassion for Filner, citing his years of championing civil rights and the environment.	cause_general
The resignation capped a tumultuous six weeks for San Diego.	distant_evaluation
Since Filner’s top communication aide first went public with her complaints of sexual harassment last month, 17 more women came forward with accusations against him.	cause_specific
The women who said they were harassed included a retired Navy rear admiral, a great-grandmother, a university dean and the former communications director, Irene McCormack Jackson, who filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against the mayor and the city.	cause_general
Filner eventually apologized for what he called disrespectful behavior, but maintained that he had not broken any laws and that he wanted an impartial review of his actions to clear his name.	distant_evaluation
His lawyers filed papers in court to move the lawsuit against him to Imperial County, just east of San Diego.	cause_general
But calls for his resignation grew louder in recent weeks and organizers on Sunday started collecting signatures to force a recall election against him.	cause_general
Organizers of the recall effort said Friday that they had more than 20,000 signatures, about one-fifth of what would be needed to qualify for the ballot.	cause_general
Todd Gloria, the Democratic City Council president, who was part of the negotiations, will serve as acting mayor until a special election is held in the next 90 days.	main_consequence
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
SAN DIEGO - Mayor Bob Filner resigned Friday under a barrage of sexual harassment complaints, offering an apology to his accusers while still denying the allegations and blaming his downfall on “a combination of awkwardness and hubris.”	main
“I never intended to be a mayor who went out like this,” Filner said before a packed City Council chamber, drawing sporadic applause from some supporters in the audience.	distant_evaluation
His announcement came after a closed-door meeting of the City Council in which members considered a deal struck late Wednesday that paved the way for the mayor’s resignation.	cause_specific
He is to step down Aug. 30.	cause_general
“This is the toughest decision in my life,” said Filner, who devoted many of his comments to criticizing his political enemies and speaking of the vision he had for leading the city.	distant_evaluation
The council’s decision came after dozens of people packed the chambers to voice their opinion on a deal whose details they had no way of knowing.	cause_specific
MEXICO CITY - A former colonel in the Salvadoran military accused of planning the killing of six Jesuit priests during that country’s civil war has been sentenced to 21 months in a U.S. prison for immigration violations.	main
“With the conclusion of this sentencing, the hope is that the United States will, in fact, revise and respond positively to the extradition request,” Bernabéu said.	distant_expectations_consequences
Montano had been granted a special immigration status that shielded him from deportation, which he had received after lying about his military service and the date he entered the United States, prosecutors said.	cause_general
An assistant U.S. attorney, John A. Capin, argued that Montano came to the United States to avoid criminal prosecution for his role in the killings.	distant_evaluation
Montano’s lawyer said that an amnesty was in effect when he left El Salvador, making the former colonel, who he said faced economic hardship at the time, immune to prosecution in his home country.	distant_evaluation
A 1993 U.N.	distant_historical
Truth Commission report named Montano a participant in the plot to kill the priests, whom military officers suspected of collaborating with left-wing guerrillas.	distant_historical
They, their housekeeper and her teenage daughter were killed in a raid on the Jesuit-run University of Central America in San Salvador.	distant_historical
In 2011, a Spanish National Court judge issued arrest warrants for 20 men, including Montano, suspected of participating in the slaying of the priests.	distant_historical
The judge also requested the extradition of 15 of the 20 - the main suspects - but the Salvadoran Supreme Court denied that request.	distant_historical
“The sentence of 21 months sends a message to human rights abusers that they cannot seek safe haven in the United States and avoid accountability for their actions,” said a statement from the Center for Justice and Accountability.	distant_evaluation
The sentence, handed down in Boston on Tuesday, could set the stage for his extradition to Spain, where he would be one of the few top-ranking officers to face trial in the 1989 killings.	distant_expectations_consequences
Five of the six priests were Spanish, and Spain is seeking his extradition because it is unlikely that El Salvador - where an amnesty law has allowed other suspects in the crime to remain free - will prosecute him.	cause_general
If convicted in Spain, he could face up to 30 years in prison.	distant_evaluation
The former colonel, Inocente Orlando Montano, 71, was El Salvador’s vice minister of public safety at the time of the killings, which brought international condemnation.	distant_historical
When he was arrested in 2011, he had been living in a Boston suburb for 10 years.	distant_historical
He pleaded guilty in September to charges of immigration fraud and perjury related to his application for temporary humanitarian status to remain legally in the United States.	distant_historical
Almudena Bernabéu, a lawyer with the Center for Justice and Accountability in San Francisco, which has pursued the case, said that the United States had indicated it would be amenable to extraditing Montano once he served his sentence for immigration fraud.	distant_evaluation
Extradition proceedings could take more than a year.	distant_expectations_consequences
EDS: Minor EDITS throughout; REVISES headline.	error
“No one sent me a copy of it,” he said, adding, “I am retired.	distant_evaluation
I have been retired for over a year.”	distant_evaluation
Efforts to reach Damesek were unsuccessful.	cause_general
The Education Department will bring disciplinary charges against her and seek her firing “or, at the very minimum, a demotion,” Hughes said.	main_consequence
Besides its unflattering portrait of the leadership team at one of the most prestigious high schools in the country, the report also describes a 21st-century example of how students let others peek at their answers.	cause_general
The ringleader, Nayeem Ahsan, referred to as “Student A” in the report, told investigators he used his iPhone to send answers to other students via text messages to “garner good will” among classmates, the report said, and perhaps get help from them in subjects he was weaker in.	cause_specific
The number of students involved who received his texts “grew and grew,” according to Ahsan’s account in the report.	cause_specific
During the physics Regents exam, he told investigators, he waited until one proctor left the room and was replaced by a lax one who did not walk around.	cause_specific
Eventually, she fell asleep, he said, and he began sending out answers.	cause_specific
The proctor denied falling asleep.	cause_specific
);	error
On June 16, a student emailed Teitel to say that Ahsan had “electronically assisted” several students on Regents exams and was set to do so again, the report said.	cause_specific
In reaction to that message, Teitel “showed an extreme lack of judgment,” it said.	distant_evaluation
He set up a sting operation for a June 18 language exam, placing a reliable proctor to catch Ahsan in the act, the report said.	cause_specific
When the proctor did so, he notified Teitel, who took Ahsan and his phone out of the room.	cause_specific
School staff members copied information from the phone to find out who else had been receiving answers.	cause_specific
Shortly after Ahsan left, the information on his phone suddenly disappeared; he told school staff members that he had just suspended his phone service, which they did not believe, the report said.	cause_specific
Teitel told Ahsan and his father, “There’s no way I’m keeping him” at Stuyvesant and told them to request a safety-related transfer to another school, which they reluctantly did, but education officials rejected it, saying his safety was not in jeopardy.	cause_specific
Dozens of students were suspended for several days and had to retake exams.	cause_specific
Nayeem spent his senior year at Forest Hills High School in Queens and graduated two months ago, according to his father.	cause_general
Although the report is dated Nov. 5, its release was delayed until Friday, “because there were allegations of a 'culture of cheating,'” at Stuyvesant, Hughes said.	distant_evaluation
NEW YORK - The principal of Stuyvesant High School, one of the city’s top public schools, mishandled the investigation into a large cheating operation there last year from the moment he was tipped off to it until state education officials became aware of it more than a week later, a city report issued Friday said.	main
“We kept the investigation open and monitored until the end of the school year,” Hughes said.	distant_evaluation
“No further evidence was presented that warranted a change in the report, so the report was issued as is.”	distant_evaluation
The principal, Stanley Teitel, retired last summer while the city’s Education Department was investigating his handling of the cheating, which involved more than 60 students using smartphones to receive answers for standardized city and state tests.	cause_specific
The report, issued by the Education Department’s Office of Special Investigations, said that after Teitel was tipped off by a student about the cheating, he set up a sting operation to catch the ringleader when he should have tried to pre-emptively thwart the cheating, including by enforcing the citywide ban on phones inside schools.	cause_specific
The report said that Teitel and an assistant principal, Randi Damesek, took too long to question students involved and did not report the cheating to state officials until eight days after catching the lead student, when reporters began inquiring about what had happened.	cause_specific
“It is the conclusion of this office that due to a lack of foresight, candor and professional judgment, Teitel and Damesek failed to efficiently and effectively carry out the administrative duties entrusted to them during their handling of the 'cheating incident,' of June 2012,” the report said.	main
It recommended that Teitel be barred from future employment in city schools, and the Education Department will follow that recommendation, Erin Hughes, a spokeswoman, said.	main_consequence
Teitel said Friday he had not seen the report and would not discuss its contents.	distant_evaluation
After hearing both sides -- and seeing Wynn’s maps -- the panel gave the combatants until the end of the week to solve the dispute on their own, or the commission would solve it for them at a more formal hearing with witnesses, cross examinations, and documents entered into evidence.	main
Commission members did not directly say Wednesday which side they believed to be right, but suggested the documents provided by Wynn should help solve the dispute.	distant_evaluation
''It looks to me the facts are pretty clear,'' said commission chairman Stephen Crosby.	distant_evaluation
Wynn is competing for the sole Greater Boston casino Âlicense with Suffolk Downs, the East Boston casino proposal Âfavored by Menino, and a Foxwoods project in Milford.	cause_general
The commission is expected to choose the winning applicant in early 2014.	distant_expectations_consequences
Wynn’s representatives, including former governor William F. Weld, a partner at Mintz Levin, argued that the City of Boston, while not a host community, probably qualifies as a surrounding community under the law.	distant_evaluation
As a surrounding community, the city could negotiate with Wynn for compensation to address the effects of a casino, such as additional traffic on Boston streets.	distant_evaluation
Surrounding communities, however, do not hold binding public votes on casino projects, nor can they block a casino development by refusing to negotiate or by asking for too much.	distant_evaluation
Failed negotiations would be settled through arbitration.	distant_evaluation
''There is nothing personal here,'' Weld said.	distant_evaluation
Maps released by Wynn Resorts on Wednesday indicate that all of the company’s proposed Mystic River casino development lies within Everett, bolstering the company’s claim that the City of Boston is not a host community for the project and therefore cannot block it.	cause_general
''We want the City of Boston to receive fair compensation for any impacts.''	distant_evaluation
In presenting the city’s case, lawyers for Boston displayed Wynn’s own renderings of the project, which appear to show landscaping on a narrow triangle of land on the Boston side of the city line.	cause_general
The city also claimed Wynn created confusion over Boston’s status by refusing to provide project plans and documents the city had requested.	cause_general
Wynn’s representatives said artistic renderings should not be taken as formal plans.	distant_evaluation
Lawyers representing the two sides swapped business cards after the hearing, which Crosby took as a positive sign they would be talking about a resolution, without further action from the commission.	distant_expectations_consequences
But Mayor Thomas M. Menino’s administration was not ready to give up, saying the Charlestown neighborhood near the proposed development should get to vote on whether to accept the Wynn proposal.	cause_general
''The city will continue to fight for the full protection of Charlestown and the people of Charlestown.''	distant_evaluation
If it is, Boston could be designated a host community for the project under state law, giving the city broad power over the development, including the power to kill it.	distant_evaluation
Boston’s claim rests with the odd shape of the city line, which darts across the Mystic River into the edge of the former Monsanto chemical site where Wynn intends to build.	cause_specific
The state gambling commission brought the two sides together Wednesday to present their arguments at a public forum.	cause_specific
Although they were later pardoned and freed, Chun and Roh had failed to pay the 220.5 billion won ($203 million) and 268.8 billion won ($248 million) that they were fined, respectively.	cause_general
But opposition lawmakers have said he might have huge assets stashed away.	distant_evaluation
“We bow deeply in apology,” Chun Jae-kook, the eldest son of Chun, said in a family statement that he read Tuesday.	distant_evaluation
He said Chun’s three sons and daughter would give up buildings, land and paintings and other assets to help pay their father’s fine.	distant_evaluation
He said the house where Chun and his wife live would also be sold to help pay the fine, though he asked government officials to let his parents live there until they die.	distant_evaluation
Chun is 82.	cause_general
Lee Jin-han, a senior prosecutor, told reporters that the assets prosecutors have secured so far from Chun’s family members, including those they said they would give up on Tuesday, amounted to 170 billion won ($156 million) enough to cover Chun’s unpaid fine.	cause_general
Earlier this month, Roh paid off his fine.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
His brother and a businessman whose daughter divorced Roh’s son helped him pay the 23 billion won ($21 million) he still owed the government in fines.	cause_general
);	error
Their decision closes a chapter on South Korea’s prolonged struggle with the legacy of one of its most brutal former leaders.	main_consequence
Chun ruled until 1988, when he was succeeded by Roh Tae-woo, his partner in the 1979 coup.	distant_historical
They were also convicted of collecting huge bribes from big business while in office.	distant_historical
“It divides people.	main
What we really need to do is to work together and provide a solution, not separating people and then saying that the ends justify the means.”	main
Lhota said that de Blasio’s “knee-jerk response to any new program is to raise taxes,” an approach he said was “instinctively wrong.” Instead, Lhota said the mayor should look to find efficiencies in the city’s budget.	distant_evaluation
Flanked by rabbis, one of whom addressed him as Mayor, Lhota asked for, and received, a gift of honey cake, following a Jewish tradition associated with the Lubavitcher rebbe, as Schneerson was known.	cause_general
He said a prayer at the site; in an interview, he declined to say what the prayer was, only that it was a prayer for all New Yorkers.	distant_evaluation
He said de Blasio’s approach amounted to “a repudiation of everything great that’s happened over the last 20 years, and we can’t let that happen.”	distant_evaluation
His remarks came as the Democratic race remained unsettled, with de Blasio hovering slightly above the 40 percent threshold required to avoid a runoff, but thousands of paper ballots still to count.	cause_general
He mounted a direct attack on de Blasio’s “tale of two cities” campaign theme, saying that de Blasio was trying to “separate classes” as a political strategy.	main
With: DC-SHOOTING, DC-SHOOTING-VICTIMS);	error
These were not bullets but many small pieces of lead flying through the air.”	distant_evaluation
As he searched, he was confronted by a security guard near an exit.	cause_general
The gunman shot the security guard and took his semiautomatic handgun, then headed back to atrium.	cause_general
Despite statements from senior law enforcement officials Monday that an AR-15 had been found at the scene, no such gun has been found, and the authorities say they do not believe the gunman used one.	distant_evaluation
It is unclear if Alexis’ psychiatric issues ever progressed to the point that he was involuntarily committed to a mental health institution, or determined officially to be mentally ill, either of which would have barred him from purchasing a gun.	distant_evaluation
On the other hand, studies have found an increased risk for violence among those with serious mental illness, including schizophrenia, major depression or bipolar disorder.	cause_general
“He went inside the building and assembled it in a bathroom.”	distant_evaluation
He used shotgun shells that had roughly a dozen large ball-bearing-like shots in them, increasing the lethal nature of each shot.	cause_general
“It is similar to weapons used in bird shooting but on a more serious scale.	distant_evaluation
My wife is freed.”	distant_evaluation
They include a journalist, Mahsa Amrabadi, whose husband and fellow journalist, Masoud Bastani, remains in prison.	main
Some of them were taking part in Iran’s prison leave system, in which some prisoners are allowed to live at home but remain under the threat of imprisonment if they cross the authorities.	cause_general
Analysts said the prisoner release could soften some of the criticisms over Iran’s human rights policies and allow for Rouhani to focus on finding a diplomatic solution to the standoff over Iran’s disputed nuclear program.	distant_expectations_consequences
“Iran wants to make a good impression on the eve of his trip.”	distant_evaluation
);	error
For a long time, she was the only lawyer in Iran taking on high-profile cases, defending children, activists and minorities.	cause_general
Unlike some activists, Sotoudeh never chose to leave Iran, despite constant pressure on her by Iran’s intelligence services, which arrested her in 2010.	distant_evaluation
“We have seen Nasrin Sotoudeh jailed for defending human rights,” he said.	distant_historical
Iranian officials deny that there are any political prisoners in Iran, saying that all those behind bars have been tried according to the country’s laws.	distant_evaluation
In 2012, the European Union awarded her the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought.	distant_historical
Among the other prisoners released Wednesday was former Commerce Minister Feizollah Arabsorkhi, a member of a reformist political party declared illegal after the 2009 anti-government protests, which were triggered by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s disputed re-election victory.	main
Arabsorkhi was in a hospital in Tehran undergoing a shoulder operation when he heard that he had been officially freed, his wife, Maryam Sharbatqods, said over the phone.	cause_general
Two presidential candidates in 2009 - former Prime Minister Mir Hussein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, a former Parliament speaker - have been under house arrest since 2011, along with Mousavi’s wife, Zahra Rahnavard.	distant_historical
During his election campaign, Rouhani said he would work to secure their release.	distant_historical
Mehdi, 27, a university student who took part in the 2009 protests and asked that his surname not be published, said: “Today’s prisoner releases show that there are negotiations going on regarding their freedom.	distant_evaluation
Maybe it will take some time to get them freed from house arrest.	distant_evaluation
I am much more hopeful now.”	distant_evaluation
An imprisoned American of Iranian descent, Amir Hekmati, was not among those freed Wednesday.	cause_general
Hekmati, 30, a former Marine, was arrested more than two years ago on espionage charges during what his family called an innocent visit to his grandmother.	distant_historical
Hekmati’s family, who is from Flint, Mich., has been publicly pleading for his release, and U.S. officials, including Secretary of State John Kerry, have been calling on Rouhani’s government to let Hekmati go home.	cause_general
Analysts said the prisoner release was a significant step in Hasan Rouhani’s efforts to repair Iran’s relationship with the West, which has been mired in a dispute over Iran’s nuclear program and criticism of its human rights policies.	distant_evaluation
On Tuesday, Hekmati’s congressman, Rep. Daniel T. Kildee, sent a letter to Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, urging her to press the issue when Rouhani visits for the General Assembly session next week.	cause_general
His visit to New York to attend the annual session of the U.N. General Assembly is part of a diplomatic offensive he began after his election in June.	cause_general
In a telephone interview after her release, she said: “I don’t know why they released me.	distant_evaluation
I don’t know under what legal basis they released me.	distant_evaluation
But I am free.”	distant_evaluation
But as late as 18 months ago, buyout specialists evaluating the company saw few viable options for turning the slumping company around.	distant_historical
The two men, who had run the company for decades, had come under pressure from disgruntled shareholders as BlackBerry continued to lose market share to rivals including the iPhone and phones using Google’s Android software.	distant_historical
These people cautioned, however, that the talks were preliminary and might not lead to any bids.	cause_general
BlackBerry shares listed in the United States plunged 17.1 percent to $8.73.	cause_general
Lazaridis could not be reached for comment.	cause_general
Blackstone and Carlyle declined to comment.	cause_general
EDNOTES: (FOR USE BY NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE CLIENTS)	error
He was released on $5,000 bail after pleading not guilty and was given a no-contact stipulation with Smith unless another party was involved.	cause_specific
Sullinger later released a statement through the team expressing embarrassment.	cause_specific
According to the police report, Sullinger and Smith had an argument when she found evidence on his cellphone that he had been unfaithful.	cause_specific
Sullinger allegedly pinned her down and damaged her cellphone before leaving the apartment.	cause_specific
After Sullinger was arrested, the Celtics released a statement saying the team was disappointed in him, but have not commented since.	cause_general
The Celtics are scheduled to start training camp Sept. 30, and Sullinger is expected to participate.	distant_evaluation
He was limited to 45 games last season because of back surgery.	distant_historical
Sullinger may also face an NBA suspension, depending on the outcome of the case.	distant_expectations_consequences
A settlement could be reached before Oct. 28.	distant_expectations_consequences
DA pursues assault case vs. Celtics player © 2013 The New York Times	error
The domestic assault case against Celtics forward Jared Sullinger will continue despite pleas from his girlfriend to drop the charges.	main
Sullinger, 21, was in Waltham District Court on Monday to face charges of assault and battery, destruction of property, and intimidation of a witness in an Aug. 31 conflict with his girlfriend, Deann Smith, at Sullinger’s Waltham residence.	cause_general
Sullinger’s lawyer, Charles Rankin, said Smith does not want to continue the case and is not fearful of Sullinger, but the Middlesex district attorney’s office is planning to pursue it.	main
Sullinger’s next pretrial hearing is Oct. 28, two days before the Celtics open the regular season against the Raptors at Toronto.	cause_general
''The case is pending,'' said Stephanie Chelf Guyotte, director of communications for the Middlesex district attorney’s office.	distant_evaluation
''We believe we have evidence supporting the charges and we’re continuing to move forward.''	distant_evaluation
Sullinger, who is entering his second season with the Celtics, turned himself in Sept. 3.	cause_specific
EDNOTES: (FOR USE BY NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE CLIENTS)	error
In nominating Barron, President Obama said in a statement that he ''has displayed exceptional dedication to the legal profession through his work.	distant_evaluation
.Â .Â .	error
He will be a diligent, judicious, and esteemed addition to the First Circuit bench.''	distant_expectations_consequences
Barron is married to former Globe editorial columnist Juliette Kayyem, a candidate for Massachusetts governor.	cause_general
In addition to teaching at Harvard, he served for 18 months in the Obama administration as acting assistant attorney general in the Department of Justice.	cause_general
Barron came under criticism in October 2011 for drafting the Obama administration’s secret legal memorandum that justified the controversial killing, without a trial, of the American-born Anwar al-Awlaki, the radical Muslim cleric hiding in Yemen.	distant_historical
He was killed in spite of an executive order banning assassinations.	distant_historical
The White House defended the memorandum and the killing.	distant_historical
Barron’s nomination was supported by lifelong Republican John F. Manning, a colleague at Harvard Law School, as well as Charles Fried, also a Harvard professor and solicitor general to President Reagan.	cause_general
If his nomination is approved, Barron would replace Court of Appeals Judge Michael Boudin, who assumed senior status, or semiretired status, in June.	distant_evaluation
3 lawyers to federal judgeships in Mass.	error
Boudin, who has sat on the court since 1992, was the author of the First Circuit’s historic decision that struck down the federal Defense of Marriage Act in 2012.	distant_historical
The Supreme Court, in a separate case, later ruled the law unconstitutional.	distant_historical
Mastroianni, a former state prosecutor and private lawyer who became district attorney in 2011, was nominated to replace US District Court Michael Ponsor, the Springfield sitting federal judge who took senior status in August 2011.	main
And Talwani, a private lawyer who focuses on civil litigation, was tapped to replace US District Court Judge Mark L. Wolf, who took senior status in January.	main
''These individuals have demonstrated the talent, expertise, and fair-mindedness Americans expect and deserve from their judicial system,'' Obama said.	distant_evaluation
''I am grateful for their willingness to serve and confident that they will apply the law with the utmost impartiality and integrity.''	distant_expectations_consequences
According to campaign finance reports, Barron and Talwani have donated to federal political candidates: Barron gave $4,000 to Obama and $1,500 to Warren.	cause_general
He has also given to Representative Joseph Kennedy III and Senator Edward J. Markey.	cause_general
Talwani gave $200 to Warren in 2011 and $1,000 to Secretary of State John F. Kerry’s presidential campaign in 2004.	distant_historical
Retired US District Court Judge Nancy Gertner, who teaches at Harvard Law and headed Warren’s advisory committee that made the recommendations to Obama, said the panel worked quickly so that the positions would be filled.	distant_evaluation
© 2013 The New York Times	error
But, she said, the committee also took caution to follow Warren’s call for nominations with diverse backgrounds: not only in race and gender, but also in their legal backgrounds.	distant_evaluation
Gertner said a priority was to find potential judges who did not have the typical background of being a federal prosecutor or coming from a large law firm.	distant_evaluation
''The senator very much wanted to improve the diversity of the bench, not just racial and gender, but with economic diversity, and people who had different histories,'' Gertner said.	distant_evaluation
''There’s a perspective that is missing on the bench, so we were charged with trying to do something about background diversity, and I’m very proud of my senator and very proud of my committee.''	distant_evaluation
The federal court in Boston has a vacancy following US District Court Judge Joseph Tauro’s announcement in August that he will go on senior status.	cause_general
Addressing long-term vacancies in the federal court system in Massachusetts, the White House has nominated three lawyers for federal judgeships in the state, including the recommendation of Hampden District Attorney Mark G. Mastroianni to a US District Court post in Springfield.	main
In addition to Mastroianni, the White House nominated attorney Indira Talwani to the US District Court in Boston, and tapped Harvard Law School professor David Jeremiah Barron -- a former Department of Justice lawyer -- for appointment to the US Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.	main
The nominations, announced Tuesday, will be sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee for confirmation.	cause_general
''Both nominees .Â .Â .	distant_evaluation
are talented and highly respected practitioners with diverse professional backgrounds, strong ties to the community, and impressive legal careers,'' said Senator Elizabeth Warren, who commissioned an advisory committee that recommended Talwani and Mastroianni.	distant_evaluation
She also praised the nomination of Barron, saying he ''is a highly respected law professor and former government official with a strong commitment to public service.''	distant_evaluation
EDS: SUBS for writethru; NEW headline.	error
But Tuesday, Nagyova dealt prosecutors a blow when she walked into a police station in Prague and introduced herself as Mrs. Jana Necasova, her lawyer, Eduard Bruna, told the Czech media.	distant_evaluation
Under Czech law, family members cannot be compelled to testify against one another, and analysts said this could make it difficult for prosecutors to prove that any order to offer bribes came from the former prime minister.	distant_evaluation
“The heart of the bribery case has been whether she was acting alone or on behalf of Mr. Necas, and now it will be very difficult to prove whether he was giving her directions,” said Jaroslav Plesl, deputy editor of Tyden, a leading political magazine.	distant_evaluation
Speculation that Necas and Nagyova married in a secret ceremony had been building for days, after they were spotted at Chateau Mcely, a 17th-century chateau near Prague with a manicured English park, a spa and a lake with a white sand beach.	cause_general
Tabloids have been offering big rewards for recent photographs or videos of the couple.	cause_general
The two had been engaged for years in a surreptitious relationship that Necas finally acknowledged in July, telling Tyden that being romantically involved with a senior aide while he was prime minister was probably a bad idea.	distant_evaluation
“Interconnecting a personal relationship with a working relationship is simply not correct, and I knew that,” he told the magazine, explaining that the heart had won out over the head.	distant_evaluation
Necas has not been charged with a crime and has denied any wrongdoing.	cause_general
Nagyova has also professed her innocence and was released in July after a month in jail pending trial.	cause_general
On Tuesday, Bruna, her lawyer, told the Czech media that Nagyova had declined to give a statement to the police, saying she was “not yet ready.”	cause_general
); Jana Marie Preiss contributed reporting from Prague.	error
The inquiry, which included wiretaps of Necas’ phone calls with Nagyova, turned up $8 million in cash and stashes of gold that prosecutors suspect was linked to influence peddling, the authorities said.	distant_evaluation
When Nagyova’s home was searched in June before her arrest, the police discovered receipts for Louis Vuitton handbags totaling 120,000 euros, about $162,000.	distant_historical
But it is unclear whether they were gifts or merely the accessories of a woman referred to as “tsarina” because of her luxurious tastes.	distant_evaluation
The case has riveted the country in a region that has struggled to shed a culture of corruption in the aftermath of the Communist era.	distant_evaluation
Corruption in the Czech Republic is so endemic that one industrious young Czech recently started a “crony safari” bus tour.	distant_anecdotal
The stops include the modernist villas of influential lobbyists and a single address registered to hundreds of companies.	distant_anecdotal
No, they were not on a hiking trip in the Carpathians.	cause_general
Eluding frenzied Czech media, the disgraced former prime minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Necas, and his onetime chief of staff were married in a secret ceremony Saturday, the Czech media reported Tuesday.	main
With the couple ensnared in the most exhaustive anticorruption sting operation in the Czech Republic since the fall of Communism, their marriage was variously viewed by analysts as a misguided love story or a cynical ploy to avoid prosecution.	distant_evaluation
In June, Necas, 48, once nicknamed “Mr.	distant_historical
Clean Hands” for his anticorruption campaigning, was forced to resign after his chief of staff and mistress, Jana Nagyova, was charged with abuse of office for using the country’s secret intelligence service to spy on Necas’ wife, whom he divorced in August.	distant_historical
Nagyova was also accused of trying to bribe three members of Parliament, who opposed a government austerity plan, with offers of posts in state-owned companies.	distant_historical
Prosecutors have been seeking to prove that Necas, a churchgoing father of four, was also involved in bribing members of Parliament.	cause_general
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
It was the Horman case that is depicted in the film “Missing” by the director Costa-Gavras.	cause_general
At the time of the indictment, Patricia Davis told The Associated Press that her husband had Alzheimer’s disease and was in a nursing home.	distant_historical
She did not explain, however, that the nursing home was in Santiago.	distant_historical
U.S. Embassy officials in Chile said they were unaware that Davis was living in Santiago until early May, when they were informed of his death a few days before.	cause_general
Patricia Davis also confirmed her husband’s death in a telephone interview from Niceville, Fla., but declined to say where it had occurred.	cause_general
A death certificate issued in Santiago says that a Ray E. Davis died of a “multisystemic failure” on April 30, at age 88.	distant_historical
Records at the Parque del Recuerdo cemetery in Santiago also show that a Ray E. Davis was cremated there but that his remains were taken elsewhere.	distant_historical
Charles Horman’s widow, Joyce, is unconvinced that it is the Ray Davis accused of involvement in her husband’s murder, and she has asked the U.S. Embassy to provide proof of the cancellation of the former captain’s pension.	distant_evaluation
“How is it that no one notified the Chilean court system or the U.S. Embassy that Ray Davis was in Chile, when it now looks like he had been in Chile for a year or so?” she said.	distant_evaluation
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
SANTIAGO, Chile - The Chilean courts have long been after Ray E. Davis, a former U.S. Navy captain, accusing him of being involved in the murder of two Americans decades ago that inspired the award-winning 1982 film “Missing.”	cause_general
A Chilean judge indicted Davis in 2011 and requested his extradition from the United States, where he was assumed to be living with his wife, Patricia.	distant_historical
The Chilean Supreme Court then authorized the extradition request in October.	distant_historical
But it turns out Davis may have been right under their noses all along, living in a nursing home in the Chilean capital.	cause_general
Any attempts to haul him into court may now be too late; documents show that he recently died here.	cause_specific
The death of Davis, former commander of the U.S. Military Group at the embassy in Santiago, would leave many unanswered questions about the possible roles played by U.S. officials in the killings of Americans Charles Horman, 31, and Frank Teruggi, 24, while in military custody shortly after the 1973 military coup led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet.	main_consequence
DAKAR, Senegal - Charles Blé Goudé, a crucial ally of Laurent Gbagbo, the Ivory Coast strongman indicted on charges of crimes against humanity, is being sought on similar charges, the International Criminal Court said Tuesday.	main
Long before the civil war, the Jeunes Patriotes had several times been mobilized against forces perceived to be threatening Gbagbo’s power, including the French and the United Nations, with violent results.	distant_historical
Blé Goudé is now being held by the authorities in Ivory Coast, and it is not clear whether they will release him to The Hague.	cause_general
Eleven days ago they announced that they would not be sending Gbagbo’s wife, Simone, also under indictment, to The Hague, but instead would try her at home.	cause_specific
Human rights activists in Ivory Coast said they doubted that Blé Goudé could receive a fair trial in that country, pointing out, for instance, that his lawyer there has no access to him.	distant_evaluation
In addition, some of the very rebel leaders who helped Ouattara gain power are accused of crimes similar to those Gbagbo and his associates are accused of.	cause_general
But so far they have not been arrested.	cause_general
“We think justice in Ivory Coast is victors’ justice,” said Hervé Gouamene, Blé Goudé’s lawyer in Abidjan.	distant_evaluation
“Everyone knows crimes were committed on the other side, too.	distant_evaluation
There is no impartiality.”	distant_evaluation
Blé Goudé played a central role in Gbagbo’s efforts to stay in power by force after his defeat in presidential elections in November 2010, recruiting and arming youths who went on to beat and sometimes murder opponents in the economic capital, Abidjan.	distant_historical
He was known as the “general of the streets,” and the youth militia he founded, the Jeunes Patriotes, or Young Patriots, was notorious for its brutality, extortionate checkpoints and frenzied rallies presided over by Blé Goudé.	distant_evaluation
An indictment against him, unsealed Tuesday by the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Netherlands, has been pending since December 2011, eight months after he fled Ivory Coast when Gbagbo, the former president, was ousted by the French military.	cause_specific
Blé Goudé was subsequently arrested in Ghana and extradited to Ivory Coast in January of this year.	distant_historical
The indictment accuses him of crimes of humanity including murder and rape and calls him a member of Gbagbo’s inner circle who met with him to receive instructions and formulate plans, playing “a key role in recruiting, enlisting, arming, training and integrating thousands of volunteers” into the army.	cause_general
The wounds of the brief but bloody 2010-11 civil war - more than 3,000 people died - in Ivory Coast, in which Blé Goudé participated actively, are not healed.	distant_evaluation
Rural warlords who helped bring Gbagbo’s presidential opponent, Alassane Ouattara, to power still play important military and economic roles, notably in smuggling and in other “predatory economic activities,” according to a report by a United Nations group of experts in April that underlined the country’s political fragility.	distant_historical
Gbagbo’s partisans remain armed; about $400 million in cocoa beans - Ivory Coast is the world’s leading producer and was once West Africa’s economic powerhouse - was lost to smuggling in 2011-12, according to the report.	distant_historical
This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS.	error
This week’s executions brought to 140 the number of people executed so far this year, compared with 123 in 2012 and 18 in 2010, the United Nations reported.	cause_general
Pillay will be in direct contact with Iraqi authorities in the coming days, Colville said, but in the meantime she urged the government to immediately halt executions and to commute the sentences of about 900 prisoners now held on death row.	main_consequence
U.N. human rights officials say the integrity of the judicial system has been tainted, citing the numerous reports of confessions obtained through torture and ill-treatment, the weakness of the judiciary and trial procedures that fall far short of international standards.	distant_evaluation
They also said some of the offenses for which prisoners are executed did not meet the threshold of “most serious crimes,” which international law sets for the use of the death penalty.	distant_evaluation
Iraq’s justification for using the death penalty as a deterrent to terrorism was “clearly exposed as a fallacy” by the sharp rise in civilian casualties over the same period, Pillay noted.	distant_evaluation
The rash of recent bombings in the capital, Baghdad, and other parts of the country had driven up civilian casualties to the highest level since 2008, Pillay observed.	cause_general
It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow’s New York Times.	error
);	error
GENEVA - The U.N. human rights chief, Navi Pillay, on Friday condemned Iraq’s execution of 42 prisoners over two days this week, denouncing such mass executions as “obscene and inhuman” and warning that they undermined efforts to reduce violence and achieve a more stable society.	main
Iraq’s justice system is “too deeply flawed to warrant even a limited use of the death penalty, let alone dozens of executions at a time,” Pillay said in a statement released in Geneva, repeating a view she has expressed on several occasions.	distant_evaluation
At least some of the latest executions, which were carried out Wednesday and Thursday, breached international law because Iraq is unable to hold fair trials, Pillay’s spokesman, Rupert Colville, told reporters.	distant_evaluation
And Iraq’s decision to proceed with executions Thursday, which was World Day Against the Death Penalty, was “particularly perverse,” Pillay said.	distant_evaluation
Iraq’s Justice Ministry said the executed prisoners had been convicted of “terrorist crimes, killing dozens of innocents in addition to other crimes aimed at destabilizing the country, causing chaos and spreading horror.”	cause_general
Pillay also expressed concern about the “dramatic and shocking increase” in Iraq’s resort to the death penalty.	distant_evaluation
Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome.	error
Herbert Kappler, the Gestapo chief in Rome, ordered the deaths of 10 Italians for every dead policeman.	distant_historical
Seventy-five of the 335 victims were Jewish.	distant_historical
By many accounts, the captives were led into the caves with their hands tied behind their backs, forced to kneel - many over the bodies of those already killed - and shot in the neck.	distant_historical
Priebke said he was responsible for exceeding the quota by five.	distant_evaluation
“It went wrong,” he was quoted as saying in an article published in the German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung a week before his death.	distant_evaluation
The prosecution in Italy was a protracted affair.	distant_evaluation
The military tribunal that tried Priebke in 1996 ended up ordering him freed.	distant_historical
While finding him guilty of involvement in the massacre, the court acquitted him of acting with premeditation and cruelty.	distant_historical
Only a conviction on those counts would have sent him to prison because of a 30-year statute of limitations on murder charges.	distant_evaluation
His release caused an international outcry, and he was rearrested after an appellate court ordered another trial by military tribunal.	distant_historical
Erich Priebke, a former SS captain who was sentenced to life in prison for helping to organize the execution of 335 men and boys at the Ardeatine Caves in Italy in 1944, died Friday under house arrest at his home in Rome.	main
In July 1997, the second military court sentenced him to 15 years in prison, but reduced that term to five years, saying there had been mitigating factors, including Priebke’s assertion that he had acted under orders.	distant_historical
Prosecutors appealed, and in March 1998 Priebke was sentenced to life, a verdict that was upheld by the Court of Cassation, Italy’s highest appellate court.	distant_historical
Because of his age, Priebke was put under house arrest.	distant_historical
Two soldiers kept watch day and night outside the apartment block in western Rome where Priebke lived, and two police officers followed him whenever he left the residence, according to the account in Sueddeutsche Zeitung, by Malte Herwig.	cause_general
Referring to Hannah Arendt’s famous phrase about the Nazis when she covered the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Israel, Herwig, who has done extensive research on the Nazi era, described his encounter with Priebke as “the last chance to investigate that supposed banality of evil with a living person.”	distant_evaluation
Priebke was born on July 29, 1913, in Hennigsdorf, near Berlin.	distant_historical
His parents both died early in his life, he told Herwig, and he was reared largely by an uncle.	distant_historical
Little is known of his early life.	cause_general
As World War II ended, he was imprisoned by the British but eventually fled to a German-speaking area in the north of Italy, where he reunited with his wife and two sons, according to Herwig.	distant_historical
The family fled by way of Genoa to Argentina, where Priebke worked as a waiter and then opened a butcher shop.	distant_historical
He was 100 and the oldest surviving convicted Nazi war criminal.	cause_general
His commander at the time of the massacre, Kappler, was sentenced to life in prison in 1948 by a Rome court.	distant_historical
He was smuggled out of a military hospital in 1997 and died in freedom in Germany the following year.	distant_historical
Karl Hass, an SS major, was convicted with Priebke in July 1997 and given a life sentence in 1998.	distant_historical
He died while under house arrest in 2004.	distant_historical
Priebke is survived by his two sons and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.	cause_general
His lawyer said he would be buried in Argentina.	main_consequence
In recent years, Priebke remained a rallying point both for neo-Nazis and their opponents.	distant_evaluation
In July, members of Jewish groups and other protesters gathered near his home on the occasion of his 100th birthday to read the names of the massacre’s victims.	distant_historical
To the end of his life, Priebke expressed no remorse for his actions.	distant_evaluation
He “died of old age,” said his lawyer, Paolo Giachini.	cause_specific
Priebke was at the center of one of the most contentious Nazi war-crimes prosecutions of the 1990s, begun after an American television crew tracked him down in Argentina at San Carlos de Bariloche, a resort city in the foothills of the Andes.	distant_historical
Priebke fled to South America soon after World War II and had been living under his real name, owning a butcher shop and traveling to Europe - and even Italy - with a German passport.	distant_historical
He was extradited to Italy in November 1995 and ordered to stand trial before an Italian military tribunal the next year.	distant_historical
The proceedings - described at the time as possibly the last Nazi war-crimes trial in Europe - centered on the massacre at the Ardeatine Caves, just south of Rome, on March 24, 1944.	distant_historical
The men and boys were rounded up and killed in reprisal for an attack in which Italian partisans killed 33 members of a Nazi security force.	distant_historical
The law firms Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe and Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman are in advanced merger talks, with an announcement of a deal expected as early as next week.	main
But today, firms are under pressure to add to their practices quickly to break into new geographic markets and practice areas.	cause_general
And some legal industry studies have concluded that size matters in corporate law - the larger the firm, the stronger the brand.	distant_evaluation
Law firm mergers are booming, and a combination of Orrick and Pillsbury would be the year’s largest.	distant_evaluation
Fifty-eight law firms had announced mergers as of the end of September, a 41 percent increase from the same period last year, according to survey by Altman Weil, a legal industry consulting firm.	cause_general
In 2012, the large Houston firm, Fulbright & Jaworksi, joined forces with Norton Rose in Britain, creating a firm of nearly 4,000 lawyers.	distant_historical
Dentons, a firm of about 2,500 lawyers, is in talks to acquire McKenna Long & Aldridge in a deal that would push its lawyer count to more than 3,000.	cause_general
But law firm mergers carry significant risk.	distant_evaluation
For starters, there is a possibility that the leaking of merger talks can have a destabilizing effect on the firms involved, leading to defections by important partners who may disapprove of a deal or fear a lesser role - or less compensation - at the combined firm.	distant_evaluation
Big law firm deals have a mixed track record and often result in power struggles and cultural clashes.	distant_evaluation
Most infamously, the 2007 merger of Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae - the largest merger of New York law firms in history - was a fiasco.	distant_historical
A combination would create one of the country’s 10 largest firms with about 1,700 lawyers.	distant_expectations_consequences
Last year, the combined firm, Dewey & LeBoeuf, collapsed in bankruptcy amid financial mismanagement and partner defections.	distant_historical
In 2006, Orrick had flirted with possible disaster when it had agreed to the main terms of a combination with Dewey Ballantine, but the deal fell apart after several top partners jumped ship when merger talks were leaked.	distant_historical
Orrick, with 1,100 lawyers, has talked with several firms over the past decade but never made it to the altar.	cause_general
Pillsbury, too, recently discussed a deal with Fulbright.	cause_general
Although today each has offices across the globe, both Orrick’s and Pillsbury’s historical roots are firmly grounded on the West Coast.	cause_general
Each was started in San Francisco in the 1860s in the wake of the California gold rush.	distant_historical
A merger would create a formidable presence in Silicon Valley, which has become an area of expansion for corporate firms.	distant_expectations_consequences
In Washington, Pillsbury has an especially strong nuclear energy practice, another hot practice area.	cause_general
The discussions underscore the pressure on corporate law firms to grow their businesses amid persistently soft demand for legal services and the increasing globalization of the corporate law industry.	cause_general
“Our firms are in exploratory discussions about a possible combination,” James Rishwain, the chairman of Pillsbury, and Mitch Zuklie, the chairman of Orrick, said in a joint statement.	main
“These talks are serving to confirm the great respect our firms have for each other.”	distant_evaluation
People close to the talks said that the deal could still fall apart but that they were far along.	distant_evaluation
Typically, the executive committees of each firm agree to the main terms of a merger and then the entire partnerships vote at a later date.	cause_general
The news was first reported by Reuters.	cause_general
Mergers among the nation’s 100 largest firms once occurred infrequently, and marriages involving top firms were rarer still.	distant_evaluation
Newsweek, the struggling weekly magazine that ceased print publication last year, plans to turn the presses back on.	main
Editor Tina Brown took control of the combined titles, but the venture failed.	distant_historical
The traditional Newsweek never properly blended with The Daily Beast.	distant_evaluation
Brown announced in October 2012 that Newsweek would no longer publish a magazine, saving $40 million a year, and would continue as an online-only magazine called Newsweek Global.	distant_historical
Still, removing those print costs did not mean Newsweek had found a solution.	distant_evaluation
In May, Brown announced that IAC/InterActiveCorp planned to sell Newsweek, so that the company could focus its attention on The Daily Beast.	distant_historical
IBT Media - a small, digital media company - bought Newsweek in August.	distant_historical
In September, Brown stepped down from The Daily Beast and said she was leaving publishing entirely.	distant_historical
Impoco, who became Newsweek’s editor in September, said that the magazine’s new owner would not have to spend as much money publishing it as the previous owner.	distant_evaluation
Impoco said that IBT was negotiating with printers and distributors and hoped to build Newsweek’s circulation to 100,000 in the first year.	distant_expectations_consequences
Since taking the helm, Impoco, a former editor at The New York Times, has made more than two dozen new hires and is looking to expand Newsweek’s international coverage.	cause_general
The magazine will begin a 64-page, weekly edition in January or February, said Jim Impoco, Newsweek’s editor in chief.	main
He said in an interview that Newsweek would depend more heavily on subscribers than advertisers to pay its bills and that readers would pay more for Newsweek than in the past.	distant_expectations_consequences
“It’s going to be a more subscription-based model, closer to what The Economist is, compared to what Time magazine is,” Impoco said.	distant_expectations_consequences
“We see it as a premium product, a boutique product.”	distant_evaluation
Newsweek’s return to print is a positive sign for a magazine that struggled mightily in the digital age.	distant_evaluation
At its height in 1991, the magazine had 3.3 million readers.	distant_historical
In 2010, Newsweek’s owner, The Washington Post, sold it to billionaire investor Sidney Harman for $1.	distant_historical
Harman, who also assumed $40 million in liabilities, then merged it with The Daily Beast, the website owned by IAC/InterActiveCorp.	distant_historical
